---
layout: page
group: sync
level: 1
title: 4.1 Synchronization URLs
---

The SData synchronization protocol uses four URLs per resource kind. For
example, the accounts synchronization will use the following three URLs:

<pre>http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/accounts/$syncDigest
http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/accounts/$syncSource?trackingID=...&amp;runName=...&amp;runStamp=...
http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/accounts/$syncTarget?trackingID=...&amp;runName=...&amp;runStamp=...
http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/accounts/$syncResults?runName=...&amp;runStamp=...</pre>

These URLs serve the following purpose:

<table class="content" print-width="100%" width="100%">
<tbody>

<tr>

<th>

URL

</th>
<th>

Description

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

$syncDigest

</td>
<td>

The synchronization engine&nbsp;uses this&nbsp;URL to&nbsp;read and update the
synchronization digest.

This URL returns a single Atom entry that contains
the&nbsp;<a href="../0402/" title="4.2 Synchronization Digest">digest XML payload</a>

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

$syncSource

</td>
<td>

The synchronization engine uses this URL to&nbsp;read the resource changes
from&nbsp;the source endpoint.

This URL returns a&nbsp;<a href="../0404/" title="4.4 Synchronization Feed">synchronization feed</a>&nbsp;that the
engine can transfer from source to target.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

$syncTarget

</td>
<td>

The synchronization engine uses this URL to&nbsp;send changes to the target
endpoint.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

$syncResults

</td>
<td>

The synchronization engine uses this URL to send the results&nbsp;of the&nbsp;target
operations&nbsp;to the source endpoint.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

The synchronization engine should pass the following URL parameters when
POSTing to these synchronization URLs:

<table class="content" print-width="100%" width="100%">
<tbody>

<tr>

<th>

Parameter

</th>
<th>

Example Value

</th>
<th>

Description

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

runName

</td>
<td valign="top">

Full%20CRM%20to%ERP

</td>
<td valign="top">

A name that the engine assigned to the synchronization run.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

runStamp

</td>
<td valign="top">

2009-10-14T08:51:02

</td>
<td valign="top">

The timestamp at which the synchronization run was started.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

trackingID

</td>
<td valign="top">

DD052E5C-BFAD-4FFA-8D54-D696E4959497

</td>
<td valign="top">

Tracking id for asynchronous requests

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

The <tt>runName</tt> and <tt>runStamp</tt> parameters are primarily meant to
support error handling and auditing. The engine SHOULD set these parameters at
the beginning of a synchronization run and it SHOULD pass them to all POST
requests during the run. The endpoints MAY use these parameter values to tag
their error log and audit log entries, so that the user who reviews these logs
can easily correlate the log entries with a particular run of the
synchronization engine.

The <tt>runName</tt>/<tt>runStamp</tt> combination MUST uniquely identify a
run of the synchronization engine. A given "run" of the engine MAY chain
synchronization passes on several resource kinds across several application
(usually two but could be more). On the other hand, a "run" should not span over
two successive synchronization passes on the same resource kind and the same
pair of applications.

<blockquote class="compliance">A provider exposing a resource kind for synchronization MUST
expose the <tt>$syncDigest</tt> URL for the resource kind and support only GET
and POST operations on this URL.</blockquote>

<blockquote class="compliance">A provider exposing a resource kind as target for
synchronization (resources are to be created/amended/deleted within the
underlying application) MUST:

  <blockquote>Expose the <tt> $syncDigest</tt> URL for the resource kind and
support only GET and PUT operations</blockquote>

   <blockquote>Expose the <tt> $syncTarget</tt> URL for the resource kind and
support only GET, POST and DELETE operations. Support for asynchronous
invocation and sequential paging MUST be provided.</blockquote>
</blockquote>

<blockquote class="compliance">A provider exposing a resource kind as source for
synchronization (resources are to be cloned in external applications):

   <blockquote>MUST Expose the <tt> $syncSource</tt> URL for the resource kind
and support only GET, POST and DELETE operations. Support for asynchronous
invocation and sequential paging MUST be provided.</blockquote>

   <blockquote>MAY expose the <tt>$syncDigest</tt> URL for the resource kind
and support only GET and PUT operations</blockquote>

   <blockquote>MAY expose the $syncResults URLs for the resource kind(with only
POST support).</blockquote>
</blockquote>

* * *