---
layout: page
group: sync
level: 1
title: 5.4 Handling Conflicts on the Target Side
---

Conflicts are handled on the target side when the target processes the
entries of the synchronization feed (see [Updating Synchronization Target](../0503/ "5.3 Updating Synchronization Target") section).

For each entry in the feed, the target endpoint has four pieces of
information to analyze and resolve the conflict:

*   <tt>sourceDigest</tt>: the source digest, carried by
the&nbsp;<tt>&lt;digest&gt;</tt>&nbsp;element of&nbsp;the synchronization feed.
*   <tt>targetDigest</tt>: the target digest, that it can obtain from its local
store.
*   <tt>sourceState</tt>: the synchronization state of the source resource,
carried by the <tt>&lt;syncState&gt;</tt> element of the synchronization feed
entry.
*   targetState: the synchronization state of the target resource, that it can
read from its local store.

The target endpoint uses the following algorithm to decide if there is a
conflict or not (see the [Conflict Resolution with
Digest](../0206/ "2.6 Handling Conflicts with Digest") section for examples of results produced by this algorithm):

*   If <tt><tt><tt>sourceState</tt>.endpoint = targetState.endpoint</tt></tt>,
there is no conflict and&nbsp;the update&nbsp;must be applied&nbsp;if <tt>sourceState.tick &gt;
targetState.tick</tt>.
*   If <tt>targetState</tt> is contained in <tt>sourceDigest</tt>, i.e. if
<tt>sourceDigest</tt> has a digest entry <tt>E</tt> such that <tt>E.endpoint =
targetState.endpoint and E.tick &gt; targetState.tick</tt>, there is no
conflict and the update must be applied.
*   If <tt>sourceState</tt> is contained in <tt>targetDigest</tt>, i.e. if
<tt>targetDigest</tt> has a digest entry <tt>E</tt> such that <tt>E.endpoint =
sourceState.endpoint and E.tick &gt; sourceState.tick</tt>, there is no
conflict and the update must be ignored (target has the most recent version).

*   Otherwise (<tt>targetState</tt> not contained in <tt>sourceDigest</tt>,
<tt>sourceState</tt> not contained in <tt>targetDigest</tt>), there is a
conflict.

In case of conflict, the target endpoint uses the following algorithm to
resolve the conflict:

*   Let&nbsp;<tt>sourceEntry</tt>&nbsp;be the <tt>sourceDigest</tt> digest entry such that
<tt>sourceEntry.endpoint = sourceState.endpoint</tt>.
*   Let&nbsp;<tt>targetEntry</tt> be the <tt>targetDigest</tt> digest entry such that
<tt>targetEntry.endpoint = targetState.endpoint</tt>.
*   If <tt><tt><tt>sourceEntry&nbsp;.conflictPriority </tt>&lt;&gt;
targetEntry&nbsp;.conflictPriority</tt></tt>, the side with lowest priority wins.

*   Otherwise (<tt>sourceEntry&nbsp;.conflictPriority&nbsp;=
targetEntry&nbsp;.conflictPriority</tt>), then <tt>sourceState.stamp</tt> and
<tt>targetState.stamp</tt> are compared and the entry with the most recent
timestamp wins.

<blockquote class="compliance">A provider exposing a <tt>$syncTarget</tt> URL for resource kind
MUST conform to the conflict resolution mechanism described in this section</blockquote>

* * *
