---
layout: page
group: core
level: 1
title: 2.2  Single Resource URL
---

The URL for a single resource is obtained by appending a resource selector to
a resource collection URL. For example:

<pre> http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/accounts('A001')</pre>

<table class="content" print-width="100%" width="100%">
<tbody>

<tr>

<th valign="top">

<strong>Example</strong>

</th>
<th>

<strong>Component Name</strong>

</th>
<th valign="top">

<strong>Description / Comments</strong>

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

('A001')

</td>
<td valign="top">

Resource selector

</td>
<td>

This element identifies a single resource. The value between the&nbsp;quotes is
the primary key of the resource.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

This URL returns the account resource as an Atom entry.

The resource selector MAY contain a clause -&nbsp;a Boolean expression. This makes
it possible to identify a resource by a criteria other than its primary key,
which maybe helpful in mashup scenarios. For example, the following URL
identifies an account by its <tt>taxID</tt>:

<pre>http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/accounts(taxID eq '1234')</pre>

With this syntax, the clause MUST match a single resource. If the clause
matches more than one resource, the service MUST return a <tt>400 Bad
Request</tt> HTTP status code.

The <tt>isUniqueKey</tt> schema attribute MAY be used to test whether a given
property&nbsp;identifies resources in a unique way or not. See
[Metadata Extension section](../0408/ "4.8 Simple Metadata Extensions Summary").

If the parenthesized contents starts with a single quote, it MUST be
interpreted as a primary key value. Otherwise, it MUST be interpreted as a
clause. See [Query Language section](../0212/ "2.12  Query Language").

If resources are identified by a composite primary key, the key components
MUST be formatted as a single parameter in the URL. For example if&nbsp;accounts are
identified by the combination of a letter (<tt>C</tt> for customers
or&nbsp;<tt>P</tt> for providers) and a numeric id, the letter and numeric id MUST be
combined to form a single&nbsp;parameter. For example <tt>accounts('C;257')</tt>.

At this level the syntax is not imposed by SData. The application is free to
choose whatever delimiter is the most appropriate, and eventually provide an
escaping mechanism for the delimiter. So, the use of a semicolon is not imposed
by SData.

<blockquote class="compliance">SData URLs for single resources MUST comply with this syntax.
The primary key selector syntax (<tt>accounts('A001')</tt> MUST be supported.
The Boolean clause syntax (<tt>accounts(taxID eq '1234')</tt>) SHOULD be
supported with at least the basic query syntax described in the
<a href="../0212/" title="2.12  Query Language">Query Language</a> section.</blockquote>

* * *