---
layout: page
group: core
level: 1
title: 2.3 Resource Property URL
---

An SData URL can&nbsp;refer to&nbsp;a property of a resource, as demonstrated by the
following example:

<pre>http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/accounts('A001')/postalAddress</pre>

<table class="content">
<tbody>

<tr>

<th>

<strong>Example</strong>

</th>
<th>

<strong>Component Name</strong>

</th>
<th>

<strong>Description / Comments</strong>

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

postalAddress

</td>
<td valign="top">

Property

</td>
<td valign="top">

This element identifies a property of a resource.

This URL returns the postal address of the account as an Atom entry.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

SData only allows “relationship properties” in this context - properties that
point to another resource or to a collection of related resources.&nbsp;Properties
such as <tt>postalAddress</tt> or <tt>contacts</tt> are valid in the example,
assuming the <tt>address</tt> and <tt>contact</tt>&nbsp;are treated as
[resource kinds](../0101/ "1.1 Terminology") by the service. But a property such
as&nbsp;<tt>accountName</tt> would not be allowed, at least in a first version of the
SData standard. Although&nbsp;this restriction could be lifted later.

If the relationship refers to&nbsp;a single resource, as in the example which uses
a single postal address, the URL returns an Atom entry. If the
relationship&nbsp;refers to&nbsp;a collection of resources, the URL returns an Atom feed.
Say&nbsp;we had used a property such as addresses in the example.&nbsp;The
<tt>sme:isCollection</tt> schema attribute can be used to determine whether the
relationship is a collection or not. See [Relationship
Definition section](../0404/ "4.4 Relationship Definitions") for details.

A property&nbsp;is always referred to in the context of&nbsp;a single resource.&nbsp; So,
URLs such as <tt>accounts('A001')/postalAddress </tt>or
<tt>accounts('A001')/contacts</tt> are valid. However,&nbsp;a URL such
as&nbsp;<tt>accounts/postalAddress</tt> is invalid (all postal addresses of all
accounts). Note how the&nbsp;URL of the single resource comes first then the property
follows.

Properties can&nbsp;be chained, as long as the previous rule is satisfied. So, the
following URLs are also valid:

<pre>http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/accounts('A001')/postalAddress/country
http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/accounts('A001')/addresses(type eq 'postal')/country</pre>

SData also puts restrictions on the operations that can&nbsp;be performed on
property URLs. <tt>GET</tt> operations (query/read)&nbsp;are always allowed.
However,&nbsp;<tt>POST</tt> is only allowed on child collections.&nbsp;<tt>PUT</tt> and
<tt>DELETE</tt> are only allowed on individual child resources. The following
table gives some examples:

<table class="content" print-width="100%" width="100%">
<tbody>

<tr>

<th valign="top">

URL

</th>
<th valign="top">

Returns

</th>
<th valign="top">

Supported 

HTTP Methods

</th>
<th valign="top">

Comments

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

salesOrders('0023')/orderLines

</td>
<td valign="top">

Feed (GET)

Entry (POST)

</td>
<td valign="top">

GET, POST

</td>
<td valign="top">

URL refers to&nbsp;the collection of order line resources.

<tt>POST</tt> appends&nbsp;a new order line.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

salesOrders('0023')/orderLines('1')

</td>
<td valign="top">

Entry

</td>
<td valign="top">

GET, PUT, DELETE

</td>
<td valign="top">

URL refers to&nbsp;a single order line resource.

<tt>PUT</tt> and <tt>DELETE</tt> are allowed 

because order &nbsp;lines are child resources of sales orders.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

salesOrders('0023')/orderLines('1')/product

</td>
<td valign="top">

Entry

</td>
<td valign="top">

GET

</td>
<td valign="top">

URL refers to&nbsp;a single product resource.

<tt>PUT</tt> and <tt>DELETE</tt> are not allowed 

because the <tt><tt><tt>line</tt>/product</tt></tt> relationship is a reference,

not a parent/child relationship.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

salesOrders('0023')/orderLines/product

</td>
<td valign="top">

400

</td>
<td valign="top"></td>
<td valign="top">

Invalid URL. 

The orderLines segment does not identify a single resource,&nbsp;so a property
segment can't follow.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

salesOrders('0023')/customer

</td>
<td valign="top">

Entry

</td>
<td valign="top">

GET

</td>
<td valign="top">

URL refers to&nbsp;a single customer resource.

<tt>PUT</tt> and <tt>DELETE</tt> are not allowed 

because the <tt>salesOrder/customer</tt> relationship 

is a reference, not a parent/child relationship.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

salesOrders('0023')/deliveryDate

</td>
<td valign="top">

400

</td>
<td valign="top"></td>
<td valign="top">

Invalid URL

<tt>deliveryDate</tt> is a value, not a relationship.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

<blockquote class="compliance">SData providers SHOULD support resource property URLs. If they
do so, they MUST comply with the rules above.</blockquote>

* * *