---
layout: page
group: core
level: 1
title: 2.4  Service Operation URL
---

SData is based on a REST architecture and an SData service should primarily
expose “resources”. There are nevertheless scenarios where it is useful to
expose “service operations”&nbsp;in addition to&nbsp;resources. Here is typical SData
service URL:

<pre>http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/products/$service/computePrice</pre>

<table class="content" print-width="100%" width="100%">
<tbody>

<tr>

<th valign="top">

<strong>Example</strong>

</th>
<th valign="top">

<strong>Component Name</strong>

</th>
<th valign="top">

<strong>Description / Comments</strong>

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

$service

</td>
<td valign="top">

Service keyword

</td>
<td valign="top">

Special syntax to distinguish service operations from other resources.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

computePrice

</td>
<td valign="top">

Operation Name

</td>
<td>

This element identifies a service operation.

The operation MUST be invoked by posting an Atom entry containing the
parameters to this URL. The SData service will return the computed prices as an
Atom entry containing the result. See&nbsp;<a href="../1104/" title="11.4 Synchronous Operations">Synchronous Service
Operations</a> for details.

In this example the input and output are Atom entries, but SData also
supports Atom feeds as input and/or output to service operations.
See&nbsp;<a href="../1100/" title="11 Service Operations">Service Operations section</a>&nbsp;for details.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

The <tt>$service</tt> component MAY be placed after the dataset segment,&nbsp;if
it applies&nbsp;to&nbsp;the entire contract. In that case it would go&nbsp;after
<tt>test&nbsp;</tt>in the example. Or it MAY be placed after the
[resource kind](../0101/ "1.1 Terminology") segment,&nbsp;if it applies to resources of
a specific kind as in the example.

<blockquote class="compliance">SData providers MAY provide service operations. If they do so,
they MUST use the above URL syntax to expose their service operations.</blockquote>

* * *