---
layout: page
group: core
level: 1
title: 2.11  Query Parameters
---

## <a name="url-params" href="#url-params">Collection URL parameters</a>

The following table describes the query parameters that can be applied to
URLs that return collections of resources (Atom feeds).

These parameters can&nbsp;be applied to URLs such as:

<pre>http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/salesOrders
http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/accounts('A001')/salesOrders</pre>

<table class="content" print-width="100%" width="100%">
<tbody>

<tr>

<th>

Example

</th>
<th>

Description / Comments

</th>
<th>

Compliance

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

startIndex=21

</td>
<td>

Paging: indicates the index of the first resource returned by the query.
See&nbsp;<a href="../0604/" title="6.4 Query Paging">Query Paging section</a>&nbsp;for details.

This index is 1-based (not 0-based).

</td>
<td valign="top">

MUST

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

count=10

</td>
<td>

Paging: indicates the number of resources requested by the service consumer.

The service may choose to return a different number of resources and it
indicates this by setting the <tt>itemsPerPage</tt> element in the returned
feed. See&nbsp;<a href="../0604/" title="6.4 Query Paging">Query Paging section</a>&nbsp;for details.

</td>
<td valign="top">

MUST

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

where=postalAddress.countryCode eq 'UK'

</td>
<td>

Specifies a filtering criteria.

Only the resources that have a postal address in the UK are returned.

See the&nbsp;<a href="../0212/" title="2.12  Query Language">Query Language section</a>&nbsp;for details on how
the <tt>where</tt> parameter is used.

</td>
<td valign="top">

MUST

(with basic query level)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

orderBy=postalAddress.countryCode asc,name desc

</td>
<td>

Specifies an ordering criteria.

The collection is sorted first by ascending country code of their postal
address, then by descending name.

</td>
<td valign="top">

MUST

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

search=wisteria

</td>
<td>

Specifies a full-text search criteria.

The syntax for the search string may vary depending on the search engine used
by the provider. 

SData does not attempt to introduce a standard syntax for full text searches
because the search text is&nbsp;usually&nbsp;entered interactively through a search box.

</td>
<td valign="top">

MAY

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

## <a name="collection-resource" href="#collection-resource">Collection and Resource&nbsp;URL parameters</a>

The following table describes the query parameters that may be applied both
to URLs that return collections of resources (Atom feeds) as well as URLs that
return individual resources (Atom entries).

These parameters may be applied to URLs such as:

<pre>http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/salesOrders?where=date.year ge 2008
http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/salesOrders('S001')</pre>

<table class="content" print-width="100%" width="100%">
<tbody>

<tr>

<th>

Examples

</th>
<th>

Description / Comments

</th>
<th>

Compliance

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

include=orderLines,customer

include=$children

include=$descriptors

</td>
<td>

Related <tt>orderLines</tt> and <tt>customer</tt> resources are returned
together with the salesOrder resource(s). It is&nbsp;assumed&nbsp;only the sales order
heading is&nbsp;returned by default. See&nbsp;<a href="../0605/" title="6.5 Query Payload Control">Query Payload Control section</a>&nbsp;for details.

<tt>$children</tt> indicates&nbsp;the payload should include the resource and all
its children resources (recursively). For example, a sales order with its order
lines, its billing and delivery addresses, its associated notes.

<tt>$descriptors</tt> indicates the payload should include "descriptors" for
all related resources. The "descriptors" are human readable strings for the
related resources. For example, first name + last name for a contact resource.
The descriptors are carried by sdata:descriptor attributes in the payload.
See&nbsp;<a href="../0605/" title="6.5 Query Payload Control">Query Payload Control section</a>&nbsp;for details.

</td>
<td valign="top">

MUST

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

precedence=2

</td>
<td>

The resource's XML payload should only contain properties&nbsp;that have a
precedence value&nbsp;&lt;= 2 in the schema. See <a href="../0408/" title="4.8 Simple Metadata Extensions Summary">Property Definition section</a>&nbsp;for details.

If this parameter is set to 0, the payload&nbsp;should be&nbsp;completely omitted from
the response.

If this parameter is not set, the payload should contain all the properties
listed in the schema, regardless of their priority&nbsp;value.

This parameter allows the consumer to get a trimmed down version of the
payload. This is useful when the consumer&nbsp;needs to fill a combo&nbsp;box for example.
In this case, he&nbsp;can pass <tt>precedence=0</tt> because he only needs&nbsp;an
id/title&nbsp;pair for each entry and these can be obtained from the Atom entry.

</td>
<td valign="top">

MUST

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

select=id,orderDate,customer/id,billingAddres,deliveryAddress/*

</td>
<td>

Selects the properties that will be returned in the payload.

This parameter allows a client to request that a specific list of properties
be returned in the payload. It gives precise control over the breadth and depth
of information returned.

In the example, the payload will contain the order id, the order date, the
customer id, the billing address (without any details) and the delivery address
(with full details - but not recursive). The * character is the wildcard for all
properties.

This parameter shadows the <tt>include</tt> and <tt>precedence</tt>
parameters. If&nbsp;<tt>include</tt> and/or <tt>precedence</tt> are&nbsp;specified in
conjunction with&nbsp;select,&nbsp;the <tt>include</tt> and <tt>precedence</tt> values are
ignored and only the <tt>select</tt> list is used.

</td>
<td valign="top">

MUST

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

includeSchema=true

</td>
<td>

The provider includes the feed or entry schema fragment in its response. See
<a href="../0410/" title="4.10 Inlined Schemas">Inlined Schema section</a> for details.

</td>
<td valign="top">

MAY

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

## <a name="resource" href="#resource">Resource&nbsp;URL parameters</a>

The following table describes the query parameters that may be applied to
URLs that return individual resources (Atom entries).

These parameters may be applied to URLs such as:

<pre>http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/salesOrders('S001')</pre>

<table class="content" print-width="100%" width="100%">
<tbody>

<tr>

<th>

Examples

</th>
<th>

Description / Comments

</th>
<th>

Compliance

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

returnDelta=true

</td>
<td>

Indicates that the server should only include the properties that have been
modified in its response.

This parameter is only meaningful in POST and PUT requests. It is used to
optimize the traffic and reduce the size of the payload returned by these
operations.

The SData provider may ignore this parameter and always return the entire
payload. If the provider ignores this parameter, its consumers will not benefit
from the traffic optimization but they should still function normally.

</td>
<td valign="top">

MAY

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

## <a name="post" href="#post">POST parameters</a>

The following table describes query parameters that only apply to POST
operations. These parameters can&nbsp;be applied to URLs such as:

<pre>http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/customers/$service/sendOverdueReminders</pre>

<table class="content" print-width="100%" width="100%">
<tbody>

<tr>

<th>

Example

</th>
<th>

Description / Comments

</th>
<th>

Compliance

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

trackingID=abc42b0d-d110-4f5c-ac79-d3aa11bd20cb

</td>
<td>

Tracking id for reliable posting of asynchronous operations. See sections&nbsp;on
<a href="../0804/" title="8.4 Reliable Posting">reliable posting</a>&nbsp;and&nbsp;<a href="../1105/" title="11.5 Asynchronous Operations">asynchronous service operations</a>&nbsp;for
details on this parameter.

</td>
<td valign="top">

MAY

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

## <a name="generic-params" href="#generic-params">Generic&nbsp;parameters</a>

The following table describes the query parameters that can&nbsp;be applied to any
SData URL, including schema URLs.

<table class="content" print-width="100%" width="100%">
<tbody>

<tr>

<th>

Example

</th>
<th>

Description / Comments

</th>
<th>

Compliance

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

format=application/json

</td>
<td>

The resource(s) are returned in a specific format.

Standardized MIME types are used to specify the format.

A compliant SData service is only required to support the Atom format (feed
and entry). Alternate formats is an optional feature that only some
services&nbsp;honour.

This parameter overrides any value passed through the HTTP <tt>Accept</tt>
header

</td>
<td valign="top">

SHOULD

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

language=en-GB

</td>
<td>

Indicates the&nbsp;language the&nbsp;response must be in.

This parameter overrides any value passed through the HTTP
<tt>Accept-Language</tt> header. See <a href="../0314/" title="3.14 Localization">localization section</a> for details.

</td>
<td valign="top">

SHOULD

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

version=1.0.7

</td>
<td>

Requests a specific version of the resource.
See&nbsp;<a href="../0214/" title="2.14 Resource Versioning">Resource Versioning</a> section.

This parameter is primarily used for schema URLs.

The value of this parameter is a string and every application is free to
choose its naming scheme for versions. But SData imposes the
major.minor.revision format if the resource is a schema. See the
<a href="../0409/" title="4.9 Schema Rules">4.9 Schema Rules</a> section for details.

</td>
<td valign="top">

MAY

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

<blockquote class="compliance">The compliance column indicates the level at which applications
have to support these parameters. If a provider receives a parameter that it
does not support or understand, it MUST ignore it. It MUST NOT return an error
in this case.</blockquote>

* * *