---
layout: page
group: core
level: 1
title: 2.13 Naming Conventions for URLs
---

[Resource kinds](../0101/ "1.1 Terminology") take the&nbsp;plural form&nbsp;in SData
URLs. For example, <tt>accounts</tt>, <tt>contacts and</tt>
<tt>salesOrders</tt>.

SData uses camel case as its standard for various components in a URL. This
is&nbsp;where the first letter of&nbsp;a word is&nbsp;lower case. Where words are combined,
each word that follows&nbsp;starts with a&nbsp;capital letter.&nbsp;For example,
<tt>myApp</tt>.

As a general rule, SData URLs are case sensitive. SData providers MUST format
all the URLs that they return to their consumers with consistent casing, and
they SHOULD use camel case for the URL components.

SData providers SHOULD NOT use case-only differences to differentiate between
resources. For example, an SData provider is not allowed to expose salesOrders
and salesorders as two different resource kinds.

SData providers MAY accepts URLs that have case differences, but consumers
SHOULD NOT rely on this feature being generally supported. On the other hand, as
stated above, SData providers MUST format all their URLs with consistent casing.

The above&nbsp;rules do not apply to the data components contained in URLs. For
example, if an application has case sensitive primary keys, it may very well
treat accounts('a0') and accounts('A0') as two different resources. Case
sensitivity on the data components is handled by application specific rules.

<blockquote class="compliance">SData providers MUST comply with the above rules.</blockquote>

* * *