---
layout: page
group: core
level: 3
title: 3.5 Paging Information
---

The following elements return information about the current page when
querying a collection of resources. They conform to the OpenSearch specification
([http://www.opensearch.org/Home](http://www.opensearch.org/Home)):

<pre>&lt;opensearch:totalResults&gt;31465&lt;/opensearch:totalResults&gt;
&lt;opensearch:startIndex&gt;1&lt;/opensearch:startIndex&gt;
&lt;opensearch:itemsPerPage&gt;10&lt;/opensearch:itemsPerPage&gt;</pre>

These values are now described:

<table class="content" print-width="100%" align="center" width="100%">
<tbody>

<tr>

<th>

OpenSearch Element

</th>
<th valign="top">

Description

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

totalResults

</td>
<td valign="top">

Total number of resources in the collection.

The service consumer can use this value and <tt>itemsPerPage</tt> to
calculate the number of pages for the collection and display a navigation bar
with links to pages by number.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

startIndex

</td>
<td valign="top">

Index of the first resource returned in this feed. Index starts at 1, not 0.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

itemsPerPage

</td>
<td valign="top">

Number of resources that the service returns in a page.

This number will usually be the value of the <tt>count</tt> parameter when
this parameter is present in the URL but it MAY be different because the service
provider is not required to cut pages exactly as requested by the consumer. For
example, the provider could impose a page size that is&nbsp;a multiple of some
internal page size. Or it may cap the page size to avoid excessive memory usage
and timeouts. See <a href="../0211/" title="2.11  Query Parameters">query parameters section</a>.

If the <tt>count</tt> parameter is not specified, <tt>itemsPerPage</tt>
SHOULD be set to the server's default page size.

The response feed MUST contain _exactly _<tt>itemsPerPage</tt>
entries, unless this is the last page of the feed, in which case it MUST contain
_at most_ <tt>itemsPerPage</tt> entries.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

<blockquote class="note">RESTful Web Services book states that startIndex is 0-based but
this seems to be incorrect. Examples found on the web and the
<a href="http://www.opensearch.org/Specifications/OpenSearch/1.1/Draft_3#The_.22Url.22_element">latest opensearch draft</a> indicate that <tt>startIndex</tt> is 1-based by default.</blockquote>

The [Query Paging section](../0604/ "6.4 Query Paging") gives details on the role
that these elements play in the paging protocol.

<blockquote class="compliance">SData providers that support the index paging protocol MUST
include these elements in their feeds.</blockquote>

* * *