---
layout: page
group: core
level: 3
title: 3.10  Error Payload
---

SData uses HTTP status codes to indicate errors. In many REST applications, a
status code and a status message is sufficient. However,&nbsp;in business
applications it is better to&nbsp;provide a detailed diagnoses when an error
occurs.&nbsp;SData defines an XML format for error information.

Here is an example of an SData error entry:

<pre>&lt;sdata:diagnosis&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;sdata:severity&gt;error&lt;/sdata:severity&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;sdata:sdataCode&gt;BadWhereSyntax&lt;/sdata:sdataCode&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;sdata:applicationCode/&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;sdata:message&gt;Invalid query syntax: function 'foo' does not exist&lt;/sdata:message&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;sdata:stackTrace/&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;sdata:payloadPath/&gt;
&lt;/sdata:diagnosis&gt;</pre>

The elements of the error payload are now described:

<table class="content" print-width="100%" width="100%">
<tbody>

<tr>

<th>

Element

</th>
<th>

Description

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

severity

</td>
<td>

Severity of the diagnosis entry.

Possible values are:

*   Info: Informational message&nbsp;- does not require any special attention.
*   Warning: Warning message&nbsp;- does not prevent operation from succeeding but
may require attention.
*   Transient: Transient error&nbsp;- operation failed but may succeed later in the
same condition (record locked for 'xxx').
*   Error: Error: Operation failed&nbsp;- request should be modified before
resubmitting.
*   Fatal: Severe error -&nbsp;operation should not be reattempted.&nbsp;Other operations
are likely to fail too.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

sdataCode

</td>
<td>

The SData diagnosis code (see table below)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

applicationCode

</td>
<td>

The application specific diagnosis code.

This should only be set when <tt>sdataCode</tt> is set to
<tt>ApplicationDiagnosis</tt>.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

message

</td>
<td>

A&nbsp;friendly message for the diagnosis.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

stackTrace

</td>
<td>

The stack trace for the error. It should only be filled when the service is
run in “development” mode.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

payloadPath

</td>
<td>

<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XPath">XPath</a> expression that refers
to&nbsp;the payload element&nbsp;responsible for the error.

This element is only used when the error is related to a specific piece of
data being sent to the service provider. For example when updating a resource,
or when submitting a service request.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

SData defines the following set of values for the code element:

<table class="content" print-width="100%" width="100%">
<tbody>

<tr>

<th>

SData diagnosis code

</th>
<th>

Description

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

BadUrlSyntax

</td>
<td>

Invalid URL syntax.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

BadQueryParameter

</td>
<td>

Invalid Query Parameter.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

ApplicationNotFound

</td>
<td>

Application does not exist.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

ApplicationUnavailable

</td>
<td>

Application exists but is not available.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

DatasetNotFound

</td>
<td>

Dataset does not exist.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

DatasetUnavailable

</td>
<td>

Dataset exists but is not available.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

ContractNotFound

</td>
<td>

Contract does not exist.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

ResourceKindNotFound

</td>
<td>

<a href="../0101/" title="1.1 Terminology">Resource kind</a> does not exist.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

BadWhereSyntax

</td>
<td>

Invalid syntax for a <tt>where</tt> condition.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

ApplicationDiagnosis

</td>
<td>

Application specific diagnosis, detail is in the <tt>applicationCode</tt>
element.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

<blockquote class="warning">This list may be extended in the future. Errors that do not
match a specific code should be reported with the <tt>ApplicationDiagnosis</tt>
code.</blockquote>

One or more <tt>&lt;sdata:diagnosis&gt;</tt> elements can&nbsp;be placed inside an
Atom <tt>&lt;feed&gt;</tt> or <tt>&lt;entry&gt;</tt> element. This allows an
SData service to return several diagnoses for an operation. This can be useful
when processing create or update requests since several&nbsp;business rules could
give a diagnosis for a given entry, and it is useful to be able to report them
all to the consumer. Some may&nbsp;have different severity levels.

When the response does not contain a <tt>&lt;feed&gt;</tt> or
<tt>&lt;entry&gt;</tt> (for example when a <tt>GET</tt> fails), the
<tt>&lt;sdata:diagnosis&gt;</tt> element(s) should be inserted in
the&nbsp;<tt>&lt;sdata:diagnoses&gt;</tt> element.&nbsp;The error payload would&nbsp;look like
this:

<pre>&lt;sdata:diagnoses xmlns="http://schemas.sage.com/sdata/2008/1"&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;sdata:diagnosis&gt;
   &nbsp;...
&nbsp; &lt;/sdata:diagnosis&gt;
  &lt;sdata:diagnosis&gt;
&nbsp;   ...
&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;/sdata:diagnosis&gt;
&lt;/sdata:diagnoses&gt;</pre>

<blockquote class="compliance">SData providers MUST return errors as described above.</blockquote>

* * *