---
layout: page
group: core
level: 3
title: 3.11 Tracking Payload
---

SData defines a standard tracking payload to allow a service consumer to
monitor the progress of an [asynchronous operation](../1105/ "11.5 Asynchronous Operations")
that it has initiated. The tracking payload is always associated with a <tt>202
Accepted</tt> status code. It tells&nbsp;the client&nbsp;the operation has been accepted
and is in progress. The contents of the tracking payload allows the consumer to
feedback the operation's progress&nbsp;to the user.&nbsp;For example by updating a
progress bar.

Here is an example of SData tracking payload:

<pre>&lt;tracking xmlns="<a href='http://schemas.sage.com/sdata/2008/1'>http://schemas.sage.com/sdata/2008/1</a>" &gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;phase&gt;Archiving FY 2007&lt;/phase&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;phaseDetail&gt;Compressing file archive.dat&lt;/phaseDetail&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;progress&gt;12.0&lt;/progress&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;elapsedSeconds&gt;95&lt;/elapsedSeconds&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;remainingSeconds&gt;568&lt;/remainingSeconds&gt;
  &lt;pollingMillis&gt;500&lt;/pollingMillis&gt;
&lt;/tracking&gt;</pre>

The elements of the tracking payload are now&nbsp;described:

<table class="content" print-width="100%" width="100%">
<tbody>

<tr>

<th>

Element

</th>
<th>

Description

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

phase

</td>
<td>

End user message describing the current phase of the operation.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

phaseDetail

</td>
<td>

Detailed message for the progress within the current phase.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

progress

</td>
<td>

Percentage of operation completed.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

elapsedSeconds

</td>
<td>

Time elapsed since operation started, in seconds.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

remainingSeconds

</td>
<td>

Expected remaining time, in seconds.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

pollingMillis

</td>
<td>

Delay (in milliseconds) that the consumer should use before polling the
service again.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

<blockquote class="compliance">SData providers MAY expose asynchronous operations. If they do,
they MUST use this tracking payload in their 202 responses.</blockquote>

* * *