---
layout: page
group: core
level: 3
title: 3.14 Localization
---

SData is designed for use in multi-lingual contexts. A provider can serve
localized versions of resources and its consumers have a mechanism to indicate
which localized version they would like to obtain from the provider.

Two mechanisms can be combined to communicate the consumer's language
preference to the provider:

*   HTTP <tt>Accept-Language </tt>header.
*   <tt>language </tt>query parameter.

The HTTP <tt>Accept-Language</tt> header is the default mechanism. SData
follows the HTTP standards, but providers are not required to support the full
syntax for these header values, including quality factors. They&nbsp;only need to
understand a comma separated list of locale codes and give priority to the first
elements of the list. For example:

<pre>Accept-Language: fr-CA, fr, en</pre>

The provider should localize the response in Canadian French if possible,
French as a second choice, English as a third choice.

The language MUST be expressed as a 2 letter ISO 639 code (lower case) and
the country as 2 letter ISO 3166 code (upper case). The country code is
optional.

The provider should be tolerant and SHOULD automatically downcase the
language code and upcase the country code. So a code like <tt>fr-ca would</tt>
be interpreted as <tt>fr-CA </tt>by the provider.

Usually the <tt>Accept-Language</tt> value is configured in the consumer and
the consumer sends the same value for all requests; unless the user changes the
configuration setting.

The <tt>language</tt> query parameter can&nbsp;be used to override this behaviour.
When this parameter is present, the <tt>Accept-Language</tt> header is ignored
and the value of the <tt>language</tt> query parameter is used instead. This
feature is useful when a URL needs to refer to&nbsp;a representation in a specific
locale, regardless of the consumer settings. It is also useful for debugging.

The <tt>language</tt> query parameter accepts the same syntax as the
<tt>Accept-Language</tt> header: a comma separated list of locale codes. For
example:

<pre>http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/salesOrders?language=fr-CA,fr,en</pre>

If the resource is not available in any of the requested locales, the
provider MUST NOT return an error. Instead, it SHOULD return the resource in its
default locale.

The <tt>sme:<tt>isLocalized</tt></tt> metadata attribute SHOULD be set in the
schema on all properties that hold localized text. See
[Metadata Extensions section](../0408/ "4.8 Simple Metadata Extensions Summary") for details.

<blockquote class="warning">In localized feeds or entries, only the
<tt>&lt;title&gt;</tt>&nbsp;and&nbsp;<tt>&lt;content&gt;</tt> elements and the payload
properties that are explicitly marked with <tt>sme:isLocalized="true"</tt> in
the schema are eligible for localization. The other payload elements SHOULD NOT
be localized. Specifically, date/time values, decimal values and listed&nbsp;members
(status codes for examples) SHOULD NOT be localized inside the XML payload.</blockquote>

<blockquote class="note">SData providers and consumers MUST use UTF-8 encoding. 

Legacy encodings, such as ISO-8859-1 and&nbsp;SJIS, MUST NOT be used because they are
a source of complexity and UTF-8 is now a well established standard.</blockquote>

Schemas SHOULD be localized, like any other resource returned by an SData
service provider. In a schema resource, the only elements that should be
localized are the labels of the elements&nbsp;(see [Simple
Metadata Extensions Summary](../0408/ "4.8 Simple Metadata Extensions Summary")).

<blockquote class="compliance">SData providers SHOULD support this localization protocol. If
they do not support it, they SHOULD ignore the Accept-Language header and
language parameter. They MUST NOT return an error in this case.</blockquote>

* * *