---
layout: page
group: core
level: 0
title: 4  Metadata
---

SData services expose their metadata in
[XSD](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XML_Schema) (XML Schema) format.
This information is vital for generic service consumers because it allows them
to dynamically discover what the service exposes (which resource kinds, which
service operations) as well as the associated formats (resource payloads,
input/output messages for service operations). In short, the schema defines the
SData contract that exists between the provider and its consumers.

An SData consumer needs more information than what is conveyed by a standard
XML Schema.&nbsp;SData defines a set of XSD extensions that are applied to schema
elements.

Also, SData imposes some rules on the way the schema should be structured.
These rules have been introduced so that service consumers can easily extract
useful information from SData schemas. Without such rules, the information would
be difficult to extract&nbsp;because XSD is a very versatile language and different
producers would adopt different XSD patterns.

This section starts with an [example of a typical SData schema](../0401/ "4.1 Typical SData Schema").

The following subsection describe the main parts of the example:

*   [Resource kind definitions](../0402/ "4.2 Resource Kind Definition")

*   [Property definitions](../0403/ "4.3 Property Definition")

*   [Relationship definitions](../0404/ "4.4 Relationship Definitions")

*   [Service operation definitions](../0405/ "4.5 Service Operation and Named Query Definitions")

*   [Auxiliary type definitions](../0406/ "4.6 Auxiliary Type Definitions")

This&nbsp;is followed by a section that describes how
[polymorphic relations](../0407/ "4.7 Polymophic relations") are defined and then a
subsection that summarizes the [SData XSD extensions](../0408/ "4.8 Simple Metadata Extensions Summary"),&nbsp;called Simple Metadata Extensions or SME.

Also included is a&nbsp;subsection that summarizes the
[rules](../0409/ "4.9 Schema Rules") that SData schemas should follow and gives
additional information on schema validation and schema localization.

The following subsection describes how schema fragments can&nbsp;be
[inlined](../0410/ "4.10 Inlined Schemas") inside feeds to improve performance on
mobile devices.

The last subsection describes how schemas can [import
or include](../0411/ "4.11 Importing and including schemas") other schemas.

* * *