---
layout: page
group: core
level: 1
title: 4.3 Property Definition
---

Here is&nbsp;a typical property definition extracted from our example schema:

<pre>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="orderDate" type="xs:date" minOccurs="0"
        sme:label="Date" sme:canSort="true" sme:canFilter="true" sme:precedence="2" /&gt;</pre>

This definition contains a mix of standard XSD attributes and SData
extensions. The following table describes the attributes that can&nbsp;be applied
to&nbsp;property definitions:

<table class="content" print-width="100%" width="100%">
<tbody>

<tr>

<th>

Attribute

</th>
<th>

Value

</th>
<th>

Description

</th>
<th>

Compliance

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

name

</td>
<td valign="top">

string

</td>
<td>

Name of the property.

</td>
<td valign="top">

MUST

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

type

</td>
<td valign="top">

data type

</td>
<td>

Data type for property values.

This type must be one of the standard XSD types. For
example,&nbsp;<tt>xs:date.&nbsp;</tt>&nbsp;Or a reference to a <tt>simpleType</tt> or
<tt>complexType</tt> defined in the schema.&nbsp;For example,
<tt>tns:civility--type.</tt>

</td>
<td valign="top">

MUST

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

nillable

</td>
<td valign="top">

true

false (default)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Does the property accept <tt>null</tt> as a valid value?

</td>
<td valign="top">

MUST (if true)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

minOccurs

</td>
<td valign="top">

0 or 1

</td>
<td>

Minimium number of occurences of the element in the payload.

0 is recommended value. See <a href="../0902/" title="9.2 Update Payloads">Update Payloads section</a>
for an explanation.

</td>
<td valign="top">

SHOULD

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

sme:label

</td>
<td valign="top">

string

</td>
<td>

A&nbsp;friendly name for the property (localized).

Used as column title when the data is displayed in a grid.

</td>
<td valign="top">

SHOULD

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

sme:canSort

</td>
<td valign="top">

true

false (default)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Can the feed be sorted by this property?

If this attribute is set to true, the feed should contain an
<tt>&lt;sle:sort&gt;</tt> element. See
<a href="../0306/" title="3.6 Simple List Extensions">Simple List Extensions section</a> for details.

</td>
<td valign="top">

SHOULD (if true)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

sme:canFilter

</td>
<td valign="top">

true

false (default)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Can the feed be filtered by the property?

</td>
<td valign="top">

SHOULD (if true)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

sme:canGroup

</td>
<td valign="top">

true

false (default)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Can feed entries be grouped by values of this property?

If this attribute is set to true, the feed should contain an
<tt>&lt;sle:group&gt;</tt> element. See
<a href="../0306/" title="3.6 Simple List Extensions">Simple List Extensions section</a> for details.

</td>
<td valign="top">

SHOULD (if true)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

sme:precedence

</td>
<td valign="top">

integer

</td>
<td>

Integer that controls the visibility of properties on small screens.

1 =&nbsp; always visible.

2 and above =&nbsp; visible if enough space (the higher the value, the lower the
priority).

0 =&nbsp; the default value and means no priority.

This attribute has a counterpart in the SData
<a href="../0211/" title="2.11 Query Parameters">query parameters</a>. The <tt>precedence</tt> query parameter allows a service
consumer to control which properties are returned in the payload, based on the
precedence values that have been set in the schema. See
<a href="../0605/" title="6.5 Query Payload Control">Controlling Payload section</a> for details.

</td>
<td valign="top">

SHOULD

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

sme:groupName

</td>
<td valign="top">

string

</td>
<td valign="top">

A group (category) name to group related properties.

</td>
<td valign="top">

MAY

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

sme:isMandatory

</td>
<td valign="top">

true

false (default)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Is the&nbsp;property value&nbsp;mandatory or not when creating a new resource?

</td>
<td valign="top">

MUST (if true)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

sme:isUniqueKey

</td>
<td valign="top">

true

false (default)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Is the property&nbsp;a key that identifies a unique resource?

</td>
<td valign="top">

SHOULD (if true)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

sme:isGlobalId

</td>
<td valign="top">

true

false (default)

</td>
<td>

Is&nbsp;the property&nbsp;a global identifier for the resource?

Only&nbsp;one property can&nbsp;have this attribute set to true. This property must be
of string type (in the absence of a standard XML UUID type) and its value must
be formatted as _<tt>XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX</tt>_ in XML
payloads.

When <tt>isGlobalId</tt> is set to true, <tt>isUniqueKey</tt> should also be
set to true.

This attribute is deprecated as UUIDs should be passed via the sdata:uuid
attribute rather than as element values.

</td>
<td valign="top">

deprecated

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

sme:isLocalized

</td>
<td valign="top">

true

false (default)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Should&nbsp;the property contain localized text?

</td>
<td valign="top">

SHOULD (if true)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

sme:isIdentifier

</td>
<td valign="top">

true

false (default)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Is the&nbsp;property&nbsp;the identifier for the resource?

This attribute is used by generic UI consumers, in conjunction with
<tt>sme:isDescriptor</tt>, typically to fill combo boxes. The UI
consumer&nbsp;displays the descriptor property to the user but will use the
identifier property as entry key.

This attribute is deprecated as primary key values should be passed via the
sdata:key attribute rather than as element values.

</td>
<td valign="top">

deprecated

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

sme:isDescriptor

</td>
<td valign="top">

true

false (default)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Is&nbsp;the property&nbsp;the descriptor for the resource? See
<tt>sme:isIdentifier</tt> above.

</td>
<td valign="top">

deprecated

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

sme:isReadOnly

</td>
<td valign="top">

true

false (default)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Is the&nbsp;property&nbsp;read-only?&nbsp; For example, an ID set by the provider or a
calculated property.

</td>
<td valign="top">

MUST (if true)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

sme:relationship

</td>
<td valign="top">

parent

child

reference

association

</td>
<td valign="top">

Reserved for properties that define relationships. See
<a href="../0404/" title="4.4 Relationship Definitions">Relationship Definition section</a> for details.

</td>
<td valign="top">

MUST for relationship properties

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

sme:isCollection

</td>
<td valign="top">

true

false (default)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Reserved for properties that define relationships. See
<a href="../0404/" title="4.4 Relationship Definitions">Relationship Definition section</a> for details.

Does the&nbsp;property refer to&nbsp;a collection of resources or a single resource?

</td>
<td valign="top">

MUST (if true)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

sme:copiedFrom

</td>
<td valign="top">

xpath expression

</td>
<td valign="top">

Should&nbsp;the&nbsp;property&nbsp;be updated when the subresource changes? This attribute
applies to properties that are involved in relationships. See
<a href="../0404/" title="4.4 Relationship Definitions">Relationship Definition section</a> for details.

</td>
<td valign="top">

deprecated

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

sme:canGet

sme:canPost

sme:canPut

sme:canDelete

</td>
<td valign="top">

true

false (default)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Reserved for properties that define relationships. See
<a href="../0404/" title="4.4 Relationship Definitions">Relationship Definition section</a> for details.

Indicates the&nbsp;HTTP methods supported on the property.

</td>
<td valign="top">

MUST (if true)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

sme:unsupported

</td>
<td valign="top">

true

false (default)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Is&nbsp;property&nbsp;part of a global contract that is not supported by this specific
provider?

</td>
<td valign="top">

SHOULD (if true)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

sme:tags

</td>
<td valign="top">

comma separated string

</td>
<td valign="top">

List of tags that apply to the property.

SData does not impose any predefined list of tags. Instead, each contract is
free to define its own list of tags.

This feature is an extensibility mechanism. It should be used when the
information cannot be captured by one of the other SME attributes, not as a
replacement for existing SME attributes.

</td>
<td valign="top">

MAY (1.1)

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

Let's see how how these attributes have been used in our sales order
definition example:

<pre>  &lt;xs:complexType name="salesOrder--type"&gt;
    &lt;xs:all&gt;
      &lt;xs:element name="orderNumber" type="xs:string" minOccurs="0"
                  sme:label="#" sme:canSort="true" sme:canFilter="true" sme:precedence="1" 
                  sme:isUnique="true" sme:isReadOnly="true"/&gt;
      &lt;xs:element name="orderDate" type="xs:date" minOccurs="0"
                  sme:label="Date" sme:canSort="true" sme:canFilter="true" sme:precedence="2" /&gt;
      &lt;xs:element name="shipDate" type="xs:date" minOccurs="0" nillable="true"
                  sme:label="Shipping Date" sme:canSort="true" sme:canFilter="true" sme:precedence="3" /&gt;
      &lt;xs:element name="subTotal" type="xs:decimal" minOccurs="0"
                  sme:label="Sub-total" sme:canSort="true" sme:canFilter="true" sme:precedence="2"
                  sme:isReadOnly="true" /&gt;
      &lt;xs:element name="billAddress" type="tns:address--type" minOccurs="0"
                  sme:relationship="child" sme:isCollection="false" sme:label="Billing Address"
                  sme:canGet="true" sme:canPut="true" /&gt;
      &lt;xs:element name="shipAddress" type="tns:address--type" minOccurs="0"
                  sme:relationship="child" sme:isCollection="false" sme:label="Shipping Address"
                  sme:canGet="true" sme:canPut="true" /&gt;
      &lt;xs:element name="orderLines" type="tns:salesOrderLine--list" minOccurs="0"
                  sme:relationship="child" sme:isCollection="true" sme:label="Order Lines"
                  sme:canGet="true" sme:canPost="true" /&gt;
      &lt;xs:element name="contact" type="tns:contact--type" minOccurs="0"
                  sme:relationship="reference" sme:label="Contact"
                  sme:canGet="true" sme:isMandatory="true" /&gt;
    &lt;/xs:all&gt;
  &lt;/xs:complexType&gt;</pre>

&nbsp;In this <tt>complexType</tt> definition, the SME attributes are used as
follows:

*   <tt>canFilter</tt> is set to true on the <tt>orderNumber</tt>,
<tt>orderDate</tt> and <tt>subTotal</tt> properties. This means the feed
consumer can set up filters on these properties.
*   <tt>canSort</tt> is set to true on the <tt>orderNumber</tt>,
<tt>orderDate</tt> and <tt>subTotal</tt> properties. This means the feed
consumer can enable sorting on these columns when displaying the data in a grid.

*   <tt>isUniqueKey</tt> is set to true on <tt>orderNumber </tt>as this property
uniquely idenfies a sales order resource.
*   <tt>precedence</tt> is set to 1 on the <tt>orderNumber </tt>property. This
property must always be displayed. It is set to 2 on the <tt>orderDate</tt> and
<tt>subTotal</tt> properties, and to 3 on <tt>shipDate</tt>. These properties
should be displayed next if there is enough space on the screen
(<tt>shipDate</tt> having lower priority). Precedence is not set on the other
properties. So, they should only be displayed if there is enough space left on
the screen.
*   The <tt>relationship</tt> attribute is set on the <tt>orderLines</tt>,
<tt>billAddress</tt>, <tt>shipAddress</tt> and <tt>contact</tt> properties. The
<tt>orderLines</tt>, <tt>billAddress</tt> and <tt>shipAddress</tt>
relationships are child relationships while the <tt>contact</tt> relationship is
a reference relationship (see <a href="../0404/" title="4.4 Relationship Definitions">Relationship Definition section</a> for details).&nbsp; The <tt>isCollection</tt> attribute is <tt>true</tt>
for the <tt>orderLines</tt> property and <tt>false</tt> for the other
relationship properties.
*   The <tt>isReadonly</tt> attribute is set to <tt>true</tt> on the
<tt>orderNumber</tt> and <tt>subTotal</tt> properties. These property values&nbsp;are
set/worked out on the provider side and cannot be modified directly by the
consumer.
*   The <tt>isM<tt>andator</tt></tt><tt>y</tt> attribute is set on the
<tt>contact</tt> property because we assume that this information must be
provided at the time the order is created. The <tt>orderNumber</tt> property is
not mandatory because we assume that it is generated on the service provider
side in this example. Similarly, the <tt>orderDate</tt> property is not
mandatory because&nbsp;we assume that&nbsp;the service provider defaults it to the current
date.

* * *