---
layout: page
group: core
level: 1
title: 4.4 Relationship Definitions
---

In an SData schema, relationships are expressed&nbsp;through property
definitions. The presence of an <tt>sme:relationship</tt> attribute
differentiates relationship definitions from normal property definitions.
Here&nbsp;are two&nbsp;examples from our <tt>salesOrder</tt> complex type definition:

<pre>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="orderLines" type="tns:salesOrderLine--list" minOccurs="0"
                  sme:relationship="child" sme:isCollection="true" sme:label="Order Lines" 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; sme:canGet="true" sme:canPost="true" /&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="contact" type="tns:contact--type" minOccurs="0"
                  sme:relationship="reference" sme:label="Contact" 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; sme:canGet="true" sme:isMandatory="true" /&gt;</pre>

The first one is an <tt>orderLines</tt> property, which links a sale order
resource to its collection of lines. The second one is a <tt>contact</tt>
property which links a sales order resource to a contact resource.

## <a name="bidirectional" href="#bidirectional">Bidirectional relationships</a>

If a relationship can&nbsp;be traversed in both directions, it must be represented
by two property definitions. For example, the <tt>orderLines</tt> property
defined in the <tt>salesOrder</tt> [resource kind](../0101/ "1.1 Terminology")
has a&nbsp;counterpart in the <tt>salesOrderLine</tt> resource kind: a
<tt>salesOrder</tt> property that links an order&nbsp;line to its parent sales order.
The following schema fragment shows how the complete bidirectional relationship
is expressed:

<pre>&nbsp; &lt;xs:complexType name="salesOrder--type"&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:all&gt;
      &lt;!-- other properties (skipped for clarity) --&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element sme:relationship="child" sme:isCollection="true" sme:label="Order Lines" minOccurs="0"
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; name="orderLines" type="tns:salesOrderLine--list" /&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;/xs:all&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;/xs:complexType&gt;

&nbsp; &lt;xs:complexType name="salesOrderLine--type"&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:all&gt;
      &lt;!-- other properties (skipped for clarity) --&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element sme:relationship="parent" sme:label="Order" minOccurs="0"
                  name="order" type="tns:salesOrder--type" /&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;/xs:all&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;/xs:complexType&gt;</pre>

## <a name="sme" href="#sme">sme:relationship attribute</a>

The <tt>sme:relationship </tt>attribute classifies the relationship in one of
the following categories:

<table class="content" print-width="100%" width="100%">
<tbody>

<tr>

<th>

sme:relationship

</th>
<th>

Examples

</th>
<th>

Description

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

parent

</td>
<td valign="top">

salesOrderLine.salesOrder

(parent sales order for an order&nbsp;line)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Relationship to a parent resource.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

child

</td>
<td valign="top">

salesOrder.orderLines

(lines contained in a&nbsp;sales order)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Relationship to a child resource.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

reference

</td>
<td valign="top">

salesOrder.contact

(contact linked to a&nbsp;sales order)

salesOrderLine.product

(product linked to an&nbsp;order line)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Reference to a shared resource.

Many sales orders sharing the same contact resource.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

association

</td>
<td valign="top">

customer.salesOrders

(all the sales orders of a&nbsp;customer)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Arbitrary relationship that does not fall into one of the 

above categories.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

The following rules apply to these relationship categories:

*   A parent relationship is always the reverse of a child relationship.
*   A parent relationship property always has its <tt>sme:isCollection</tt>
attribute set to false (but a child relationship may have
<tt>sme:isCollection</tt> set to true).
*   The graph obtained by traversing child relationships should always be a
tree. Cycles are not permitted: a resource cannot be a descendant of itself.

*   A reference relationship property always has its <tt>sme:isCollection</tt>
attribute set to false.

This categorization impacts the behavior of some SData artifacts. The main
ones are:

*   include=$children query parameter: resources that are referenced via "child"
relationships will be recursively included in the response payload when this
query parameter is set in the URL (see [Query Parameters](../0211/ "2.11  Query Parameters") section).
*   operations allowed on property URLs. POST, PUT and DELETE are only allowed
on child resources (see [Resource Property URL](../0203/ "2.3 Resource Property URL")
section).
*   synchronization: child resources are synchronized together with their
parent, they are not synchronized separately (see
[Relationship Handling in Synchronization](../0601/ "6.1 Relationship Handling in Synchronization")).

So, relationships should be categorized as parent/child only when the child
resource cannot exist without its parent and when there is some kind of
container/component relationship between the two. At the database level,
children records will typically be managed with a cascade delete rule.

For example, it seems logical to treat order lines as children of sales order
resources. On the other hand, sales orders should not be considered to be
children of a trading account resource. The relationship from a trading account
to its sales orders should be categorized as an association. The opposite
relationship, from a sales order to its trading account, should be categorized
as a reference.

## <a name="sme-icollection" href="#sme-icollection">sme:isCollection attribute</a>

The <tt>sme:isCollection</tt> attribute controls whether&nbsp;the property refers
to&nbsp;a collection of resources or a single resource.

In the example, <tt>sme:isCollection</tt> is <tt>true</tt> on the
<tt>orderLines</tt> property because a sales order has a collection of order
lines. On the other hand, it is <tt>false</tt> (its default value) on the
<tt>contact</tt> property because a sales order references a single contact.

<tt>sme:isCollection</tt> is most meaningful on <tt>child</tt>
relationships. It MUST always be&nbsp;<tt>false</tt> (its default value) on
<tt>parent</tt> or <tt>reference</tt> relationships, and <tt>true</tt> on
<tt>association</tt> relationships.

## <a name="type-attr" href="#type-attr">type attribute</a>

The standard XSD <tt>type </tt>attribute references a complex type described
in the schema.

If the&nbsp;<tt>sme:isCollection</tt> attribute&nbsp;is absent or <tt>false</tt>&nbsp;(for
example, <tt>salesOrderLine.salesOrder</tt>, <tt>salesOrder.contact</tt>,
<tt>salesOrderLine.product</tt>), the type MUST be a complex type associated to
a resource (<tt>salesOrder--type</tt>, <tt>contact--type</tt>,
<tt>product--type</tt> respectively).

If the sme:isCollection attribute&nbsp;is <tt>true</tt> (for example,
<tt>salesOrder.orderLines</tt>), the type MUST be a "list" type
(<tt>salesOrderLine--list</tt>).

## <a name="sme-ismandatory" href="#sme-ismandatory">sme:isMandatory attribute</a>

The <tt>sme:isMandatory </tt>attribute indicates if the property element is
mandatory to successfully create a resource (POST).

<blockquote class="warning">sme:isMandatory SHOULD NOT be set on properties that are set by
the provider when a resource is created, only on properties that MUST be set by
the consumer before POSTing to the provider.</blockquote>

## <a name="sme-copiedfrom" href="#sme-copiedfrom">sme:copiedFrom attribute (deprecated)</a>

The <tt>sme:copiedFrom </tt>attribute connects&nbsp;a property of a resource to a
property of a related resource so that when the&nbsp;related resource changes the
resource property is updated too. Its primary use is with <tt>reference</tt>
relationships. It is applied to properties that are involved in foreign keys or
that hold denormalized data (find out more about
[denormalized data on Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denormalization)). This is best explained with an example:

<pre>&nbsp; &lt;xs:complexType name="salesOrder--type"&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:all&gt;
      &lt;!-- other properties (skipped for clarity) --&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="contactID" type="xs:integer" minOccurs="0"
                  sme:copiedFrom="contact/contactID"/&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="contact" type="tns:contact--type" minOccurs="0"
                  sme:relationship="reference" sme:label="Contact" /&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;/xs:all&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;/xs:complexType&gt;

&nbsp; &lt;xs:complexType name="contact--type"&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:all&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="contactID" type="xs:integer" minOccurs="0"
                  sme:label="ID" /&gt; 
      &lt;!-- other properties (skipped for clarity) --&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;/xs:all&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;/xs:complexType&gt;</pre>

The <tt>sme:copiedFrom</tt> attribute is applied to the <tt>contactID</tt>
property of sales orders. Its value is an XPath expression that designates
another element of the <tt>salesOrder</tt> XML payload (the
<tt>&lt;contactID&gt;</tt> element under the <tt>&lt;contact&gt;</tt> element).
Meaning <tt>contactID</tt> must be updated from <tt>contact/contactID</tt>
whenever the contact reference changes.

If some other contact property (for example <tt>lastName</tt>) had been
denormalized in the sales order (for example as <tt>contactLastName</tt>), the
sales order property definition(<tt>contactLastName</tt>) would also carry an
<tt>sme:copiedFrom</tt> attribute (with <tt>contact/lastName</tt> as value).

This attribute is used by generic UI clients, typically to manage combo boxes
in edit forms. In the example, the sales order edit form&nbsp;contains a combo box to
select a contact. When the user selects a different contact, the form manager
identifies which properties of the sales order need&nbsp;updating by scanning the
<tt>sme:copiedFrom</tt> attributes of the sales order property definitions.

This attribute is deprecated because primary key values are now passed via
<tt>sdata:key</tt> attributes rather than via element values.

## <a name="adv-http" href="#adv-http">Advertising HTTP methods</a>

SData supports HTTP operations (<tt>GET</tt>, <tt>POST</tt>, <tt>PUT</tt>
and <tt>DELETE</tt>) on property URLs that represent relationships between
resources. However, all operations are not allowed on all relationship
properties. The <tt>canGet</tt>, <tt>canPost</tt>, <tt>canPut</tt> and
<tt>canDelete</tt> attributes SHOULD be set on relationship properties for all
allowed operations. See [Resource Property URL section](../0203/ "2.3 Resource Property URL").

## <a name="adv-paging" href="#adv-paging">Advertising paging modes</a>

If the relationship is flagged with <tt>sme:isCollection="true"</tt>, the
property URL returns an Atom&nbsp;feed. <tt>sme:canPageXxx</tt> attributes SHOULD be
included in the property definition if the provider supports paging on the
returned feed. See [Query Paging section](../0604/ "6.4 Query Paging"). For example:

<pre>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="orderLines" type="tns:salesOrderLine--list" minOccurs="0"
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; sme:relationship="child" sme:isCollection="true" sme:label="Order Lines" 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; sme:canPageNext="true" sme:canPagePrevious="true" sme:canPageIndex="true" 
                  sme:canGet="true" sme:canPost="true" /&gt;</pre>

In this example, the provider supports all available paging modes on the
<tt>orderLines</tt> collection. If these attributes had been omitted, the
consumer could assume that the provider does not support paging on this
collection and that the <tt>orderLines</tt> feed will always contain all&nbsp;lines.

## <a name="other" href="#other">Other property attributes</a>

The <tt>sme:canSort</tt>, <tt>sme:canGroup</tt> and <tt>sme:canFilter</tt>
attributes are also allowed on relationship properties, with their usual
meaning.

* * *