---
layout: page
group: core
level: 1
title: 4.9 Schema Rules
---

XML Scheme Definition (XSD) is a very powerful and versatile schema
definition language. It would be difficult for service consumers to make sense
of XSD schemas if SData allowed all possible variations on XSD. To avoid this,
SData imposes a set of rules on schemas.

## <a name="schema" href="#schema">Schema structure</a>

Here is a summary of the structural rules that SData imposes on schemas:

*   Every [resource kind](../0101/ "1.1 Terminology") MUST be defined by an
<tt>&lt;xs:element&gt;</tt> directly under the root <tt>&lt;xs:schema&gt;</tt>
element. The <tt>name</tt> attribute SHOULD be singular and in camel case
(<tt>product</tt>, <tt>contact</tt>, <tt>salesOrder</tt>, ...).
*   Every resource kind&nbsp;definition element MUST be followed by
a&nbsp;<tt>&lt;xs:complexType</tt>&gt; element. The name of the complex type MUST BE
obtained by appending&nbsp;the <tt>--type</tt> suffix to&nbsp;the name of the resource
kind. The resource kind definition and the complex type definition are linked
together through the <tt>type</tt> attribute of the resource kind definition
element.
*   The structure itself MUST be described as an <tt>&lt;xs:all&gt;</tt> list of
property definition elements below the <tt>&lt;xs:complexType&gt;</tt> element.

*   If the structure contains substructures, the substructures MUST be described
as separate <tt>&lt;xs:complexType&gt;</tt> nodes under the root
<tt>&lt;xs:schema&gt;</tt> node, and they MUST be referred to by means of a
<tt>type</tt> attribute. The same complex type can be reused in several
substructures.
*   If a structure is used to form lists, the schema MUST contain a definition
for its list type. The name of the list type MUST be obtained by adding a
--l<tt>ist</tt> suffix to the structure name. The list type MUST be defined as
an <tt>&lt;xs:sequence&gt;, </tt>as order is usually meaningful in a list.
*   If a type is a basic type with restrictions (an enumeration, an integer with
a range, a string with a maximum length), it SHOULD be described as a separate
<tt>&lt;xs:simpleType&gt;</tt> node under the root <tt>&lt;xs:schema&gt;</tt>
node and it SHOULD be refered to by means of a <tt>type</tt> attribute.&nbsp;If the
basic type is an enumeration, its name SHOULD have the <tt>--enum</tt> suffix.

The general idea behind these rules is to impose a flat structure in which
all the types, including substructures and simple types, are defined directly
under the <tt>&lt;xs:schema&gt;</tt> root node, and referred to by their name.

## <a name="xsd" href="#xsd">XSD constraints</a>

XSD provides mechanisms to express various types of constraints.&nbsp;Uniqueness
constraints, such as the <tt>&lt;unique&gt;</tt> element. Also&nbsp;cardinality
constraints (<tt>minOccurs</tt>, <tt>maxOccurs</tt>), length and range
restrictions, etc.

These constraints are binding for service consumers, they are not hints. If
they are specified in the schema, the consumer becomes responsible for ensuring
that the payloads that it sends to the producer conform to these constraints.
From the provider's side, exposing too many constraints goes somewhat against
the first clause of Postel's adage: "_Be liberal in what you accept, and
conservative in what you send"_. On the other hand, it seems reasonable to
impose that consumers be "reasonably conservative" in what they send, and that
simple constraints like length and range restrictions be validated on the
consumer side.

Cardinality constraints are somewhat problematic and should be introduced
with care:

*   The <tt>maxOccurs</tt> constraint is not very useful because resource types
are defined with <tt>&lt;xs:all&gt;</tt>, which implies <tt>maxOccurs="1".

</tt>**Note:** This does not prevent&nbsp;the representation of one to
many relationships because there is an intermediate element with cardinality
1,&nbsp;see the <tt>&lt;orderLines&gt;</tt> element in our feed example.
*   The <tt>minOccurs</tt> constraint SHOULD be set to 0 on all properties, even
if they are mandatory. This is because consumers should be allowed to send
partial payloads when updating resources. These partial payloads contain
all&nbsp;properties that have been modified but are not required to contain all
properties that are&nbsp;mandatory at creation time. The <tt>sme:isMandatory</tt>
attribute SHOULD be used instead of <tt>minOccurs</tt> to flag properties that
are mandatory at creation time.&nbsp;

## <a name="schema-validation" href="#schema-validation">Schema validation</a>

The XML payloads embedded in SData feeds or entries MUST conform to the
contract schema - in both directions and&nbsp;in HTTP responses as well as in POSTed
payloads.

Validation introduces overhead.&nbsp;It can be turned off in production mode,
assuming the provider is robust enough to handle invalid input. However,&nbsp;it
SHOULD be turned on during development, at least on the provider side.

## <a name="localization" href="#localization">Localization</a>

Schemas MAY be localized, like any other resource exposed by an SData
provider. In a localized schema, the <tt>sme:label</tt> values are returned in
the requested language.

The consumer controls schema localization through the HTTP
<tt>Accept-Language </tt>header and the <tt>language </tt>query parameter. See
[localization section](../0314/ "3.14 Localization") for details.

## <a name="versioning" href="#versioning">Versioning (1.1)</a>

Schemas SHOULD carry a version number. If present, the version number MUST be
placed in the <tt>version</tt> attribute of the top level
<tt>&lt;xs:schema&gt;</tt> element and it MUST have the following structure:
<tt>_major_._minor_._<tt>revision</tt>_</tt> where
_<tt>major</tt>_, _<tt>minor</tt>_ and _<tt>revision</tt>_
are three integers that satisfy the following compatibility rules:

*   Schemas with the same namespace different _<tt>major</tt>_ version
numbers MAY be incompatible with each other.
*   A schema SHOULD be compatible with any schema having the same namespace, the
same <tt>_major_</tt> version number and a lower _<tt>minor</tt>_
version number.
*   A schema MUST be compatible with any schema having the same namespace, the
same <tt>_major_</tt> and <tt>_minor_</tt> version numbers and a
lower <tt>_revision_</tt> number.

By "compatible", we mean that a consumer which was validated against the
older schema should function correctly with the newer schema.

<blockquote class="compliance">SData consumers MUST comply with the above rules</blockquote>

* * *