---
layout: page
group: core
level: 1
title: 6.4 Query Paging
---

SData provides a paging mechanism so that a service consumer can retrieve
large collections without using too much memory and without timing out. Two
paging modes are supported:

*   A sequential mode where the consumer can move forwards and backwards through
the pages
*   An indexed mode where the consumer can directly request a specific page.

## <a name="sequential" href="#sequential">Sequential paging</a>

The sequential mode relies on four feed level links: <tt>first</tt>,
<tt>last</tt>, <tt>previous</tt> and <tt>next</tt>:

<pre>&lt;link&nbsp;rel="first"&nbsp;type="application/atom+xml; type=feed"&nbsp;title="First Page"&nbsp;
      href="http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/salesOrders?startIndex=1&amp;amp;count=10" /&gt;
&lt;link&nbsp;rel="last"&nbsp;type="application/atom+xml; type=feed"&nbsp;title="Last Page"&nbsp;
      href="http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/salesOrders?startIndex=31461&amp;amp;count=10" /&gt;
&lt;link&nbsp;rel="previous"&nbsp;type="application/atom+xml; type=feed"&nbsp;title="Previous Page"&nbsp;
      href="http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/salesOrders?startIndex=11&amp;amp;count=10" /&gt;
&lt;link&nbsp;rel="next"&nbsp;type="application/atom+xml; type=feed"&nbsp;title="Next Page"&nbsp;
      href="http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/salesOrders?startIndex=31&amp;amp;count=10" /&gt;</pre>

The consumer can iterate through the pages by following the <tt>next</tt>
link until it reaches a page that does not have any <tt>next</tt> link. It can
also move backwards by following the <tt>previous</tt> link. The <tt>first</tt>
and <tt>last</tt> links allow the consumer to obtain the first and last page, as
expected.

<blockquote class="note">In the <tt>href</tt> attribute value, the query parameters are
separated by <tt>&amp;amp;</tt> rather than <tt>&amp;</tt>. This is because the
ampersand character is a special character in XML and it needs to be specially
marked in this context.

Also, the URLs returned by the provider SHOULD have their non-ASCII characters
encoded, as described in the <a href="../0216/" title="2.16 Internationalized URLs">Internationalized URLs</a>
section.</blockquote>

## <a name="indexing" href="#indexing">Indexed paging</a>

The second mode is the indexed mode where the consumer requests a specific
page. This mode relies on the <tt>startIndex</tt> and <tt>count</tt> query
parameters. For example, the following query returns elements 21 to 30 of the
<tt>salesOrders</tt> collection:

<pre>GET /sdata/myApp/myContract/-/salesOrders?startIndex=21&amp;count=10</pre>

The returned feed contains information that the feed consumer can&nbsp;use to
update a progress bar or set up paging links, if this is an interactive
interface:

<pre>&lt;opensearch:totalResults&gt;31465&lt;/opensearch:totalResults&gt;
&lt;opensearch:startIndex&gt;21&lt;/opensearch:startIndex&gt;
&lt;opensearch:itemsPerPage&gt;10&lt;/opensearch:itemsPerPage&gt;</pre>

The&nbsp;returned&nbsp;<tt>itemsPerPage</tt> value MAY be different from the value of
the <tt>count</tt> parameter&nbsp;passed in the request. For example, the provider
may impose a limit on the page size.&nbsp;If you request <tt>count=1000</tt>, the
provider may only return 200 entries. In this case, the provider MUST set
<tt>itemsPerPage</tt> to 200.

When the consumer does not specify the <tt>count</tt> parameter, the provider
SHOULD still page its response using its default page size. As a general rule,
the service SHOULD always page and impose a reasonable limit on page size to
avoid timeouts and memory problems.

## <a name="url-variants" href="#url-variants">URL variants for paging</a>

In the previous example, the sequential paging mechanism uses indexed paging
for the <tt>next</tt> and <tt>previous</tt> links. This is not a requirement,
though. Some feeds may only support&nbsp;sequential paging, or&nbsp;use a different set of
parameters to express the <tt>next</tt> and <tt>previous</tt> links. For
example:

<pre>&lt;link&nbsp;rel="next"&nbsp;type="application/atom+xml; type=feed"&nbsp;title="Next Page"&nbsp;
      href="http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/salesOrders?orderBy=id asc&amp;where=id&nbsp;gt 3547" /&gt;</pre>

Here, paging is based on a test on the resource id rather than on an index.
This is perfectly valid because the service consumer SHOULD use the
<tt>next</tt> link “as is” to page forwards. It SHOULD NOT interpret the link.

<blockquote class="note">
<p>Paging&nbsp;can&nbsp;be lossy as&nbsp;it&nbsp;works on&nbsp;a snapshot of the database.
If information is&nbsp;inserted or deleted in the database while the consumer is
reading the pages then the consumer will miss a resource or get the same
resource twice. This is usually not a problem for interactive applications but
it will be problematic for processes that have transactional requirements.
<br />
The format of the <tt>next</tt> URL can have an influence here. For example, the
earlier format&nbsp;(<tt>orderBy=id asc&amp;where=id gt 3547</tt>) is more robust
than the indexed format (<tt>startIndex=31&amp;count=10</tt>) because it will
not skip resources and will not return duplicates. But it still doesn't have
“repeatable read” semantics.</p>

<p>At this stage, SData doesn't provide any support for
transactions that span several requests because this would go against the
“stateless” nature of the protocol. This doesn't&nbsp;prevent specific applications
from exposing transactions as resources and provide transacted paging (the
transaction id could be passed via a query parameter).&nbsp;SData does not try to
standardize this at this stage.</p>
</blockquote>

## <a name="metadata" href="#metadata">Metadata</a>

SData provides <tt>sme:canPageXxx</tt>&nbsp;attributes to advertise supported
paging modes in the schema. These attributes apply to
[resource kind definitions](../0402/ "4.2 Resource Kind Definition"). For example:

<pre>&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="salesOrder" type="tns:salesOrderType" 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; sme:role="resourceKind" sme:pluralName="salesOrders" sme:label="Sales Order"
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; sme:canGet="true" sme:canPost="true" sme:canPut="true" sme:canDelete="true"
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; sme:canPageNext="true" sme:canPagePrevious="true" sme:canPageIndex="true" 
    sme:supportsETag="true" sme:batchingMode="syncOrAsync" /&gt;</pre>

These attributes are defined in the following table:

<table class="content" print-width="100%" width="100%">
<tbody>

<tr>

<th>

Attribute

</th>
<th>

Value

</th>
<th>

Description

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

canPagePrevious

</td>
<td valign="top">

true

false (default)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Does&nbsp;the resource kind support&nbsp;sequential paging in backwards direction?

When this attribute is true, feeds should contain <tt>previous</tt> and
<tt>last</tt> links.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

canPageNext

</td>
<td valign="top">

true

false (default)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Does&nbsp;the resource kind support&nbsp;sequential paging in forwards direction?

When this attribute is true, feeds should contain <tt>next</tt> and
<tt>first</tt> links.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

canPageIndex

</td>
<td valign="top">

true

false (default)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Does the resource kind support indexed paging?

When this attribute is true, feeds should contain <tt>opensearch</tt> elements.

Also, <tt>startIndex</tt> and <tt>count</tt> parameters should be supported in
query URLs.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

<blockquote class="compliance">SData providers MUST provide at least sequential paging in the
forwards direction collections that are not bounded by small values (100 or
less). They SHOULD provide index paging whenever practical. The paging protocol
MUST conform to the rules above.</blockquote>

* * *