---
layout: page
group: core
level: 1
title: 6.6 Query Caching
---

The feeds returned by SData queries can be cached. SData relies on the
standard HTTP caching mechanisms for this. Two cases come to mind:

1.  The service provider knows&nbsp;how long the result will be valid.

1.  The result may remain valid for some time but the provider does not know&nbsp;how
long this would be.

## <a name="caching-expires" href="#caching-expires">Caching with Expires</a>

The first case occurs&nbsp;when the information is refreshed by a periodic process
and not modified between process runs.&nbsp;The service provider should set the
<tt>Expires</tt> HTTP header in its response. The service consumer can rely on
this expiry date to cache the response.

For example, if the service provider exposes currency rates that are
refreshed every night at 3 am GMT, the response to an HTTP <tt>GET</tt> on
<tt>/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/currencyRates</tt> SHOULD contain the following
HTTP header:

<pre>Expires: Mon, 13 Apr 2008 03:00:00 GMT</pre>

The consumer can cache the result of this query until 3 AM GMT.

## <a name="caching-etag" href="#caching-etag">Caching with ETag</a>

The second case is the common where&nbsp;data can be modified by users or
processes at any time. In this case, SData recommends the use of the HTTP
“strong ETag” mechanism to control caching. For example:

*   The service provider SHOULD include an <tt>ETag</tt> HTTP header in its
response.

> <pre>ETag: “obIymRyfObO1lOar408hug==”</pre>

*   The consumer can cache the response. When&nbsp;needed, it should send the request
again to the service provider with the following <tt>If-None-Match</tt> HTTP
header:

> <pre>If-None-Match: “obIymRyfObO1lOar408hug==”</pre>

*   The service provider can use this value to test if the resource has changed
or not. If the resource has not been modified, the service provider SHOULD
return an empty response with a <tt>304</tt> HTTP status:

> <pre>304 Not Modified</pre>

*   Whereas, if the resource has been modified, the service provider MUST return
a <tt>200</tt> status code with the new <tt>ETag</tt> value and the new feed:

> <pre>200 OK
> ETag: “xaR0isqeM0S4thAktHRaRQ==”
> &nbsp;
> &lt;feed ...&gt;</pre>

## <a name="options-etag-values" href="#options-etag-values">Options for ETag values</a>

The <tt>ETag</tt> value MUST be a value that changes whenever the feed
changes.&nbsp;HTTP and SData do not specify what this value represents nor how it is
calculated. Here are some possibilities for the <tt>ETag</tt> value:

*   Modification timestamp: If the feed data comes from a table and if the
service provider keeps track of the last time the table was modified, it can use
the table modification timestamp as <tt>ETag</tt> value. If the data comes from
a file, the service provider can use the file modification stamp.

*   Counter: If the service provider increments a counter every time the feed
data is modified, it can use the counter as <tt>ETag</tt> value.

*   Hash: The service provider can also compute a hash on the feed data and use
it as <tt>ETag</tt> value.

As a general rule, modification stamps and counters are more efficient than
hashing as they don't need to retrieve and hash the&nbsp;data feed. Hashing&nbsp;is
usually the&nbsp;only solution when the service provider can't get a last
modification date or a counter.

<blockquote class="note">Strong etags are also used to detect concurrent modifications.
To support this, etag values are associated with individual entries rather
than&nbsp;the whole feed. It is important that feed-level etags and entry-level etags
are not&nbsp;confused. Nevertheless,&nbsp;feed-level etags can&nbsp;be calculated from the
entry etag values. For example, if the entries use modification timestamps as
etag values, the feed can set its etag to the most recent timestamp found in the
entries. If the entries carry a hash as etag, the feed-level hash can be
calculated by a hash on the combined entry-level hashes.</blockquote>

<blockquote class="compliance">SData providers MAY implement this caching protocol.</blockquote>

* * *