---
layout: page
group: core
level: 1
title: 6.7 Feed Rendering
---

SData feeds can be displayed by a variety of consumers, such as&nbsp;RSS/Atom
readers, web browsers, AJAX clients and mobile applications. This section
describes the way consumers can display&nbsp;information&nbsp;they&nbsp;extract from SData
feeds.

## <a name="atom" href="#atom">Atom</a>

SData feeds are valid Atom feeds.&nbsp;They can be directly displayed by RSS/Atom
readers and by web browsers that understand the Atom syndication format. For
example, Internet Explorer (IE), Firefox, Safari and Chrome.

The user experience with standard Atom readers is usually limited because
these readers only deal with&nbsp;Atom elements. They don't understand other SData
protocol, such as XML payload and schemas. But at least the user sees a well
formatted list with the <tt>&lt;title&gt;</tt> and <tt>&lt;content&gt;</tt> of
the feed entries.

## <a name="simple-ext" href="#simple-ext">Simple list extensions</a>

SData producers MAY include Microsoft's SLE
([Simple List Extensions](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/xml/bb190612.aspx)) markup in their feeds. This markup is recognized by Microsoft's
Internet Explorer,&nbsp;not by other browsers. It allows IE to display an enhanced
user interface with links to sort and filter the feed contents. See
[Simple List Extensions section](../0306/ "3.6 Simple List Extensions") for details.

## <a name="paging" href="#paging">Paging</a>

SData consumers can use the paging links (<tt>first</tt>, <tt>last</tt>,
<tt>previous</tt>, <tt>next</tt>) to set up page by page navigation. They can
also use the opensearch elements included in the feed (<tt>totalResults</tt>,
<tt>startIndex</tt>, <tt>itemsPerPage</tt>) to set up a navigation bar with
direct access by page number. See [Paging section](../0604/ "6.4 Query Paging") for
details on paging links and opensearch elements.

Advanced consumers (AJAX components) can go further and implement a scrolling
mechanism on top of the SData paging protocol. The opensearch elements
(<tt>totalResults</tt>, <tt>startIndex</tt>, <tt>itemsPerPage</tt>) can be used
to regulate a scrollbar. Then the UI component can use the <tt>startIndex</tt>
and <tt>count</tt> query parameters to load the entries dynamically as the user
scrolls through the data. Moreover, the SData caching mechanism can be used to
avoid reloading pages when the user scrolls back and forth.&nbsp;Even though SData
breaks the data into pages,&nbsp;a smart component can hide the paging mechanism and
provide a user friendly scrolling experience.

## <a name="xml-payload" href="#xml-payload">XML payload and links</a>

The XML payload included in the Atom entries contains the resource data. An
SData client can display this information by applying an
[XSLT](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XSL_Transformations) stylesheet
or ad hoc rendering logic.

SData consumers can also use the <tt>sdata:url</tt> and <tt>sdata:lookup</tt>
URLs contained in the payload to set up drill down and lookup links. In our
sales order feed example, the first entry contains the following
<tt>sdata:url</tt> links:

<pre>&lt;contact sdata:key="216" 
         sdata:url="http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/contacts('216')" 
         sdata:lookup="http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/contacts"/&gt;
&lt;orderLines sdata:url="http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/salesOrderLines?where=salesOrderID%20eq%2043660"/&gt;</pre>

The consumer can use the <tt>sdata:url</tt> URLs to set up drill-down links
to the collection of order lines or the contact resource.

The <tt>sdata:lookup</tt> attribute can be used to populate a list box of
contacts when the sales order entry is displayed in a form.

## <a name="metadata" href="#metadata">Metadata</a>

Generic SData consumers can&nbsp;use schema information to decide how to display
SData feeds.

The <tt>sme:label</tt> attributes provide localized, user friendly names for
the [resource kinds](../0101/ "1.1 Terminology") and their properties. They can be
used as menu entries, table names, column names, etc. See
[Resource Kind Definitions section](../0402/ "4.2 Resource Kind Definition")&nbsp; and
[Property Definition section](../0403/ "4.3 Property Definition") for details.

The <tt>sme:canPost</tt>, <tt>sme:canPut</tt> and&nbsp;<tt>sme:canDelete</tt>
attributes on resource kind definitions are used to control whether the consumer
should display links to create, modify and/or delete resources. See
[Resource Kind Definitions section](../0402/ "4.2 Resource Kind Definition")&nbsp;for details.

The <tt>sme:canFilter</tt>, <tt>sme:canSort</tt> and <tt>sme:canGroup</tt>
attributes on property definitions are&nbsp;used to decide if the consumer should
enable filtering, sorting or grouping for a&nbsp;property. See
[Property Definition section](../0403/ "4.3 Property Definition") for details.

The <tt>sme:precedence</tt> attribute on property definitions is&nbsp;used to
prioritize&nbsp;which properties are&nbsp;displayed when the screen is too small to
display all properties. See [Property Definition
section](../0403/ "4.3 Property Definition") for details.

The <tt>sme:isMandatory</tt> attribute is&nbsp;used to ensure mandatory fields are
not blank in resource creation forms. See [Property
Definition section](../0403/ "4.3 Property Definition") for details.

* * *