---
layout: page
group: core
level: 1
title: 9.2 Update Payloads
---

## <a name="partial-payload" href="#partial-payload">Partial payload</a>

The SData update protocol does not need the consumer to send the full payload
when updating a resource. Instead it can send a partial payload with modified
properties. In the 9.1 Update example, if the consumer had only modified the
<tt>shipDate</tt> property, the POSTed payload could be reduced to:

<pre>&nbsp; &lt;salesOrder xmlns="http://schemas.sage.com/myContract"&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;shipDate&gt;2008-04-05&lt;/shipDate&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;/salesOrder&gt;</pre>

This feature reduces bandwidth usage and simplifies the logic on the consumer
side. If a consumer only understands a subset of the properties exposed by the
provider, it doesn't need to memorize values for properties that it doesn't
understand. It can send a partial update limited to the properties that it does
understand. In a typical "Edit Form" scenario, the consumer initializes the form
with values that it received from a <tt>GET</tt> operation, ignoring payload
elements that are not displayed in the form. When the form is submitted the
consumer prepares&nbsp;a partial payload containing only the form values, or even
better, only the modified form values.

When a provider implements an update operation, it MUST always treat the
absence of a payload property element as meaning the property has not been
modified. It MUST NOT interpret it as meaning the property has been reset to
some default value. For example, null. If the consumer wants to set a property
value to null, it MUST do so by including an element with an <tt>xsi:nil</tt>
attribute in the payload. For example, if the consumer wants to reset the
<tt>shipDate</tt> of the sales order, it must send a payload such as:

<pre>&nbsp; &lt;salesOrder xmlns="http://schemas.sage.com/myContract"&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;shipDate xsi:nil="true" /&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;/salesOrder&gt;</pre>

## <a name="schema-implications" href="#schema-implications">Schema implications</a>

This feature has an implication on SData schemas. The <tt>minOccurs</tt>
attribute SHOULD be set to 0 so that partial payloads can be successfully
validated against the schema.

<blockquote class="note">This <tt>minOccurs</tt> guideline is only a recommendation for
providers that want to support the partial update feature. A provider can still
impose full payloads for a contract. In this case, the provider should do the
opposite and flag all properties with <tt>minOccurs="1"</tt> to indicate it
needs full payloads for create and update operations.</blockquote>

SData provides an <tt>sme:isMandatory</tt> attribute to flag properties that
are mandatory at resource creation time. So, contracts that support the partial
update feature should set <tt>minOccurs</tt> to 0 on all properties and should
use the <tt>sme:isMandatory</tt> attribute rather than <tt>minOccurs</tt> to
flag properties that are mandatory at creation time. Properties that are flagged
with <tt>sme:isMandatory="true"</tt> MUST be present in the payload of POST
operations but they may be omitted in PUT operations, unless their value has
been modified.

## <a name="updating-child" href="#updating-child">Updating Child resources</a>

A PUT operation MAY update child resources (properties marked with<tt>
sme:relationship="child"</tt> in the schema). For example, a sales order payload
may contain payloads for the billing address, shipping address and order lines
of the sales order.

### <a name="single-child" href="#single-child">Single Child</a>

If a child resource has not been modified the corresponding property MAY be
omitted from the parent payload. For example, if the billing address of a sales
order has not been modified, the <tt>&lt;billingAddress&gt;</tt> element can be
omitted from the sales order payload.

If a child resource is optional (property marked with
<tt>nillable="true"</tt> in the schema) and the property has been reset (it
referenced a child before and it has been set to <tt>null</tt>), the property
element MUST be included in the payload and it MUST carry an
<tt>xsi:nil="true"</tt> attribute.

So, the absence of a child property in the payload MUST always be interpreted
as an absence of modification on the child, never as a an optional child being
reset to <tt>null</tt>.

### <a name="children-lists" href="#children-lists">Children Lists</a>

SData provides two ways to update lists of child resources (properties marked
with <tt>sme:relationship="child"</tt> and <tt>sme:isCollection="true"</tt> in
the schema). The consumer can choose to send:

*   a delta that only contains the children that have been inserted, updated or
deleted. In this case deleted elements are included in the list and MUST be
flagged with <tt>sdata:isDeleted="true".</tt>

*   the full list of children. In this case the list only contains the elements
that remain in the list (and it MUST contain all of them). The list itself is
flagged with <tt>sdata:deleteMissing="true"</tt> to indicate that the provider
should compare its current list of children with the new list and delete the
children that are absent from the new list.

An SData consumer MAY choose to send updates on lists in either form. If it
chooses to send the full list, it MUST set the <tt>sdata:deleteMissing</tt>
flag on the list element.

An SData provider MUST accept both forms. It MUST test the
<tt>sdata:deleteMissing</tt> flag to decide if missing elements should be
deleted or simply ignored (left in the list).

Let's see how this works with a sales order and its order lines.

First, if the update payload for a sales order doesn't contain any
<tt>&lt;orderLines&gt;</tt> element, it means the order lines have not been
modified.

### <a name="delta-mode" href="#delta-mode">Delta Mode for Lists</a>

If the list of order lines has changed and the consumer chooses to send the
changes as a delta, it includes an &lt;orderLines&gt; element in the sales order
payload with the list of modified &lt;salesOrderLine&gt; elements underneath it.
For example:

<pre>&lt;salesOrder xmlns="http://schemas.sage.com/myContract"&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;shipDate&gt;2008-05-27&lt;/shipDate&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;orderLines&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;  &lt;salesOrderLine sdata:uuid="CEFE3F52-5529-46b9-A166-79EDFD2D0595"&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;orderQty&gt;4&lt;/orderQty&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;/salesOrderLine&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;salesOrderLine sdata:uuid="CD1BA6F5-C6D5-4a9b-9D59-68D43B8C58B5" sdata:isDeleted="true"/&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;/orderLines&gt;
&lt;/salesOrder&gt;</pre>

This partial payload is interpreted as a request to :

*   Update the <tt>shipDate</tt> of the sales order
*   Update the <tt>orderQty </tt>of the line with UUID <tt>CEFE3F52...</tt>

*   Delete the line with UUID <tt>CD1BA6F5...</tt>

The consumer should include either the internal identifier
(<tt>sdata:key</tt>) or global identifier (<tt>sdata:uuid</tt>) attribute of
each updated line that it sends so that the provider can match the lines it
receives with the lines that already exist in its datastore.

If the provider finds a match on a line, it should update it with the line
payload it receives, interpreting the line payload as a partial payload. In the
example, the provider updates the orderQty of line <tt>CEFE3F52...</tt>

Lines that are flagged with <tt>sdata:isDeleted="true"</tt>, like line
<tt>CD1BA6F5</tt><tt>...</tt> above should be deleted by the provider. The
provider should abort the operation and send an error response, if the line
cannot be deleted for some reason.

If the provider finds a payload line that doesn't match an existing line, it
creates a new line resource. This feature works well when lines are identified
by a universally unique identifier (UUID) because the UUIDs for the new lines
are allocated by the consumer and sent to the provider. The consumer can use
these UUIDs to match the lines that it receives in the provider's response with
the lines that it sent.

This feature can cause issues when lines are identified by an internal ID that
the provider allocates at creation time. In this case, the consumer should not
associate any identification with the created lines. The provider allocates an
internal ID but the consumer uses heuristics to match what it receives from the
provider to what it sent. This is rather fragile. For example, a match on line
number or a match on product id and quantity.

<blockquote class="note">In this mode the consumer does not need to include all the child
resources in the payload. It only needs to include the child resources that have
been modified (created, updated or deleted).</blockquote>

### <a name="full-mode" href="#full-mode">Full mode for lists</a>

If instead the consumer chooses to send the changes as a full list, it
includes an &lt;orderLines&gt; element in the sales order payload with the
complete list of &lt;salesOrderLine&gt; elements:

<pre>&lt;salesOrder xmlns="http://schemas.sage.com/myContract"&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;shipDate&gt;2008-05-27&lt;/shipDate&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;orderLines sdata:deleteMissing="true" &gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;salesOrderLine sdata:uuid="36B2ECF4-4309-4e62-9878-28DF60B78CFD"/&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;  &lt;salesOrderLine sdata:uuid="CEFE3F52-5529-46b9-A166-79EDFD2D0595"&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;orderQty&gt;4&lt;/orderQty&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;/salesOrderLine&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;/orderLines&gt;
&lt;/salesOrder&gt;</pre>

The <tt>&lt;orderLines&gt;</tt> element is flagged with
<tt>sdata:deleteMissing="true"</tt>. This flag informs the provider that the
consumer is using the full mode and that the provider should thus delete any
child resource that is missing from the payload.

This partial payload is interpreted as a request to:

*   Update the <tt>shipDate</tt> of the sales order
*   Update the <tt>orderQty </tt>of the line with UUID <tt>CEFE3F52...</tt>

*   Delete any line that is not included in the <tt>&lt;orderLines&gt;</tt>
list. So, the provider had 3 lines with UUIDs <tt>36B2ECF4...</tt>,
<tt>CEFE3F5</tt><tt><tt>2</tt>...</tt> and <tt>CD1BA6F5...</tt> before the
request, it would keep only the first two and delete line <tt>CD1BA6F5...</tt>
.

The last rule explains why we included the <tt>36B2ECF4...</tt> line in the
<tt>&lt;orderLines&gt;</tt> collection. This resource doesn't need any update
but it must be present in the collection so that the provider does not attempt
to delete it.

In this mode, it is very important that the contents of the
<tt>&lt;orderLines&gt;</tt> collection always reflects the full set of lines
that the consumer wants the sales order to have. If it contains a line that the
provider doesn't have, the provider creates a new line. If it does not contain a
line that the provider has, the provider deletes its non matching line(s). On
the other hand, the consumer doesn't have to include a full payload for every
line. It just needs to include the elements that have been modified in existing
lines and the elements that are necessary at creation time in new lines.

In this mode, an empty <tt>&lt;orderLines&gt;</tt> element is interpreted
differently to a missing <tt>&lt;orderLines&gt;</tt> element. If the provider
receives an empty <tt>&lt;orderLines&gt;</tt> element <tt>(&lt;orderLines
sdata:deleteMissing="true"/&gt;</tt>), it deletes all the sales order lines. If
it receives a payload in which the <tt>&lt;orderLines&gt;</tt> element is
missing then it does not modify any lines.

The synchronization protocol imposes the full mode. So all children lists
MUST be flagged with <tt>sdata:deleteMissing="true"</tt> in synchronization
payloads.

## <a name="updating-ref" href="#updating-ref">Updating References</a>

A PUT operation MAY update a reference to a resource (a property flagged with
<tt>sme:relationship="reference"</tt> or <tt>sme:relationship="parent"</tt> in
the schema)&nbsp; but the update payload SHOULD NOT include any payload details for
the referenced resource.

To update a reference, a consumer MUST send a property element carrying
either an <tt>sdata:key</tt> or <tt>sdata:uuid</tt> attribute that identifies
the referenced resource, unless the consumer wants to reset the reference, in
which case it MUST send a property element carrying an <tt>xsi:nil="true"</tt>
attribute.

When a provider receives an update for a reference, it MUST set the reference
to the resource identified by <tt>sdata:key</tt> or <tt>sdata:uuid</tt>, or
reset the reference if the payload element is flagged with xsi:nil="true". The
provider MUST NOT update the referenced resource, even if the consumer included
payload details for the referenced resource.

For example, a consumer can change the contact reference on a sales order by
sending the following payload:

<pre>&lt;salesOrder xmlns="http://schemas.sage.com/myContract"&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;contact sdata:uuid="A8F337CB-8816-490C-13E9-31002CB081F6"/&gt;
&lt;/salesOrder&gt;</pre>

But the consumer cannot update the contact itself in the same request and for
example change the contact's last name. It needs to send as separate PUT request
on the contact resource.

## <a name="updating-associations" href="#updating-associations">Updating Associations</a>

An PUT operation MAY update an association (a property flagged with
sme:relationship="association" in the schema) but it MAY only modify the
association list. The update payload SHOULD NOT include any payload details for
the associated resources.

To update an association, a consumer MUST send a property element containing
a list of references to the associated resources. The list of references MAY be
sent either in delta mode or in full mode, as described above (list of
children). Each entry of the assocation list MUST carry either an
<tt>sdata:key</tt> or <tt>sdata:uuid</tt> attribute that identifies the
associated resource but it SHOULD NOT contain any payload details for the
associated resource.

When a provider receives an update for an association, it MUST update the
association list. The provider MUST NOT update the associated resource, even if
the consumer included payload details for them.

<blockquote class="note">If the association payload contains an entry marked with
<tt>sdata:isDeleted="true"</tt> the provider MUST delete the entry in the
association table but it MUST NOT delete the associated resource. For example,
in the case of an association between accounts and tax codes, an update on an
account resource may delete one or more associations from the account to tax
codes but it will never delete the tax code resources themselves.</blockquote>

For example, a consumer can change the list of tax codes for a customer by
sending the following payload:

<pre>&lt;customer xmlns="http://schemas.sage.com/myContract"&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;taxCodes sdata:deleteMissing="true"&gt;
    &lt;taxCode sdata:uuid="92FE3F52-5529-46b9-A166-79EDFD2D0595"/&gt;
    &lt;taxCode sdata:uuid="081BA6F5-C6D5-4a9b-9D59-68D43B8C58B5"/&gt;
  &lt;/taxCodes&gt;
&lt;/customer&gt;</pre>

<blockquote class="note">The <tt>sdata:deleteMissing</tt> flag must be specified if the
consumer wants to replace the association list with a new one. Without this flag
new elements would be added but old elements that are left out of the new list
would remain in the association.</blockquote>

Associations are sometimes bidirectional. In this case, there is often a
direction in which the association may be updated and another direction in which
it is only available in read-only mode. This MUST be reflected in the schema by
setting sme:isReadOnly="true" on association properties that are read-only.
Update payloads SHOULD NOT contain payload for read-only properties (whether
they represent an association or not) and SData providers MUST ignore any
payload element which is flagged with <tt>sme:isReadOnly</tt> in the schema.

## <a name="partial-return" href="#partial-return">Partial Return</a>

The consumer can optimize the data transfer by adding the
<tt>returnDelta=true</tt> query parameter to the PUT URL. This parameter tells
the SData provider to return only the properties that differ from the request
payload, i.e. properties for which the provider overruled the value passed by
the consumer or properties that were modified by a side effect. See details in
the [Query Parameters section](../0211/ "2.11  Query Parameters").

<blockquote class="compliance">SData providers MUST support partial updates on all properties
that are flagged with <tt>minOccurs=0</tt> in the schema. SData providers MUST
comply with the rules described above: missing properties MUST be interpreted as
"non modified" values. Null values MUST be passed as empty elements that carry
an <tt>xsi:nil="true"</tt> marker.

SData providers MUST support both the delta mode and full mode for lists
(children and associations). 

SData consumers MUST set the<tt> sdata:deleteMissing </tt>flag to <tt>true</tt>
when they send list updates in full mode.

SData providers MAY support the partial return feature.</blockquote>

* * *