---
layout: page
group: core
level: 1
title: 10.2 Delete Concurrency Handling
---

## <a name="etag-processing" href="#etag-processing">ETag processing</a>

SData uses the same ETag based concurrency handling mechanism for update and
delete operations. When this mechanism is active the consumer MAY include an
<tt>If-Match</tt> HTTP header in its delete request. For example:

<pre class="http">DELETE /sdata/myApp/myContract/-/salesOrders('43661')
If-Match: STFtZgHEkPz7TyH98YEmWA==</pre>

When processing a <tt>DELETE </tt>request, the provider MUST check if an
If-Match header is present. If so, the provider MUST compare the value of the
<tt>If-Match</tt> header with its current ETag value for the resource.

<blockquote class="note">If the consumer does not include the <tt>If-Match</tt> header in
its <tt>DELETE</tt> request, the provider MUST NOT perform the test and MUST
proceed with the delete operation.</blockquote>

If the consumer and provider ETag values are identical, the provider knows
that the resource has not been modified since the consumer read it. So it MUST
accept the request and proceed with the delete operation. If the operation
succeeds, the provider will send a <tt>200</tt> response.

<pre class="http">200 OK
</pre>

Whereas, if the ETag values differ, the provider knows that the resource has
been modified since the consumer read it. It MUST respond with a 412
Precondition Failed status code, and&nbsp;include the current version of the entry in
its response with the current ETag value:

<pre class="http">412 Precondition Failed
Content-Type: application/atom+xml; type=entry
ETag: 3nqPeQqoGoxQB5xf3NIijw==</pre>
<pre class="xml">&nbsp;
&lt;entry xmlns:sdata="http://schemas.sage.com/sdata/2008/1" 
       xmlns:http="http://schemas.sage.com/sdata/http/2008/1" 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom"&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;id&gt;http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/salesOrders('43661')&lt;/id&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;title&gt;Sales Order 43661&lt;/title&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;!-- entry elements skipped for clarity ... --&gt; 
**&nbsp; &lt;http:etag&gt;3nqPeQqoGoxQB5xf3NIijw==&lt;/http:etag&gt;
**&lt;/entry&gt;</pre>

If the consumer is an interactive application, it MAY display the resource
again and ask the user to confirm the delete operation.

## <a name="metadata" href="#metadata">Metadata property</a>

In the schema, the <tt>sme:supportsETag</tt> property indicates whether the
ETag concurrency handling mechanism is supported or not on
a&nbsp;[resource kind](../0101/ "1.1 Terminology"). See
[Resource Kind Definition section](../0402/ "4.2 Resource Kind Definition") for details.&nbsp; If the <tt>sme:supportsETag</tt> property is set to
<tt>false</tt>, the ETag mechanism is inactive and delete operations are
processed without any concurrency checks.

<blockquote class="compliance">SData providers MUST support this concurrency handling protocol
on all resource kinds that have the <tt>sme:supportsETag</tt> flag set to true.</blockquote>

* * *