---
layout: page
group: core
level: 1
title: 11.1 Overview of Service Operations
---

Service operations are operations that don't fit naturally into the REST
(resource / CRUD) mould. Here are some examples:

*   A <tt>computeSimplePrice</tt> function that takes a (<tt>productId</tt>,
<tt>customerId</tt>, <tt>quantity</tt>) combination as input and produces a
(<tt>unitPrice</tt>, <tt>quantityPrice</tt>, <tt>discount</tt>, <tt>tax</tt>)
combination as output.

*   A <tt>computeOrderPrices</tt> function that takes a richer input. For
example,&nbsp;where sales order&nbsp;in one application calls another application to
request values, such as prices and discounts.

*   A <tt>manufactureOrder</tt> call that takes an order ID as input and causes
the ERP to start the manufacturing process for the order.

*   A <tt>sendOverdueReminders</tt> call that causes the ERP to find customers
with overdue invoices and email them a reminder.

SData uses a SOAP-like approach for service operations. Service&nbsp;operations
are executed via an HTTP <tt>POST</tt> but SData uses a different envelope to
package the&nbsp;raw&nbsp;XML data. The SOAP envelope is replaced by an Atom envelope,
entry or feed depending on whether the operation manipulates a single entry or a
collection of entries.

SData supports asynchronous operations. If the operation needs to return a
result synchronously, it should be executed as a single HTTP request&nbsp;with the
result in the HTTP response.&nbsp;For example,&nbsp;<tt>computeSimplePrice.</tt> This is
only possible if the call completes quickly because the consumer would&nbsp;timeout
otherwise. Whereas&nbsp;if the caller doesn't need to get the result synchronously,
and&nbsp;the call&nbsp;takes time to complete on the provider side, it should execute
asynchronously.&nbsp;The caller&nbsp;has a standard way to interrogate the service and
monitor the progress of the operation. For example, sendOverdueReminders.&nbsp;

<blockquote class="note">SData could take advantage of more HTTP features. In particular,
operations that do not have side effects could be executed via a <tt>GET</tt>
rather than a <tt>POST</tt> and the parameters could be passed as URL query
parameters. But this would make the protocol more complex for little benefit.&nbsp;At
least in this initial version, SData imposes the <tt>POST</tt> method for all
service operations.</blockquote>

<blockquote class="compliance">SData providers MAY expose any number of service operations
(including none). SData providers that expose service operations MUST use the
protocol described in the following pages.</blockquote>

* * *