---
layout: page
group: core
level: 1
title: 11.3 Operation Metadata
---

The following&nbsp;explains how SData encodes the various options in the metadata.

The metadata for an operation can be obtained by appending a <tt>$schema</tt>
segment to the operation's URL. For example:

<pre>http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/products/$service/computeSimplePrice/$schema </pre>

This URL works like the other [SData schema URLs](../0207/ "2.7  Resource Schema URL").
It SHOULD redirect to an element that is defined in a global schema.&nbsp;The
response to a <tt>GET</tt> on the above URL would&nbsp;typically be:

<pre>HTTP 302 Found
Location: http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/$schema#productComputeSimplePrice </pre>

<blockquote class="note">The operation name has been prefixed by <tt>product</tt> to
avoid a potential name clash with the same operation name in a different URL
branch.</blockquote>

The global schema would contain the following element definition:

<pre>&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="productComputeSimplePrice" 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; type="tns:productComputeSimplePrice--type"
              sme:role="serviceOperation"
              sme:path="products/$service/computeSimplePrice"
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; sme:invocationMode="sync" 
              sme:batchingMode="syncOrAsync"/&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;xs:complexType name="productComputeSimplePrice--type"&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:all&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="request" type="tns:simplePriceRequest--type" minOccurs="0" /&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="response" type="tns:simplePriceResponse--type" minOccurs="0" /&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;/xs:all&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;/xs:complexType&gt;
&nbsp;
&nbsp; &lt;xs:complexType name="simplePriceRequest--type"&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:all&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="productID" type="xs:string" sme:label="Product ID" /&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="customerID" type="xs:string" sme:label="Customer ID" /&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="quantity" type="xs:decimal" sme:label="Quantity" /&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;/xs:all&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;/xs:complexType&gt;
&nbsp;
&nbsp; &lt;xs:complexType name="simplePriceResponse--type"&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:all&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="unitPrice" type="xs:decimal" sme:label="Unit Price" /&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="quantityPrice" type="xs:decimal" sme:label="Quantity Price" /&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="discount" type="xs:decimal" sme:label="Discount" /&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="tax" type="xs:decimal" sme:label="Tax" /&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;/xs:all&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;/xs:complexType&gt;</pre>

&nbsp; This schema follows the [standard&nbsp;guidelines for SData schemas](../0409/ "4.9 Schema Rules"), with&nbsp;a few additional&nbsp;conventions and extensions:

*   The operation type MUST be defined as an <tt>&lt;xs:all&gt;</tt> group with
two elements called <tt>request</tt> and <tt>response</tt> (names are imposed).
If the operation doesn't have any input parameters, the <tt>request</tt>
element MUST be omitted. If it doesn't return any result, the <tt>response</tt>
element MUST be omitted.

*   SME (Simple Metadata Extension) attributes are used to encode the options.
They are prefixed by <tt>sme:</tt> in the example.

The SME extensions used to encode service operation options are
now&nbsp;described:

<table class="content">
<tbody>

<tr>

<th>

Attribute

</th>
<th>

Values

</th>
<th>

Applies to

</th>
<th>

Description

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

role

</td>
<td valign="top">

serviceOperation

</td>
<td valign="top">

operation element

</td>
<td>

Differentiates this element from "<a href="../0101/" title="1.1 Terminology">resource kind</a>"
elements.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

path

</td>
<td valign="top">

relative URL

</td>
<td valign="top">

operation element

</td>
<td>

Relative URL to start the operation.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

invocationMode

</td>
<td valign="top">

sync

async

syncOrAsync

</td>
<td valign="top">

operation element

</td>
<td valign="top">

Indicates whether the operation can be started synchronously, asynchronously
or in both modes.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

unsupported

</td>
<td valign="top">

true

false (default)

</td>
<td valign="top">

operation element

</td>
<td>

Is&nbsp;the operation&nbsp;part of a global contract&nbsp;that it is not supported by this
specific provider?

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

batchingMode

</td>
<td valign="top">

none

sync

async

syncOrAsync

</td>
<td valign="top">

operation element

</td>
<td valign="top">

Does the operation start&nbsp;in batch mode, and how does it do this?

Batching of service operations is similar to batching of CRUD operations.
Requests and responses are feeds rather than single entries. See
<a href="../1300/" title="13 Batch Operations">Batching section</a>.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

hasTemplate

</td>
<td valign="top">

true

false (default)

</td>
<td valign="top">

operation element

</td>
<td valign="top">

Does the service provide a $template URL for this operation?

See <a href="../1107/" title="11.7 Operation Template">Operation Template section</a>&nbsp;for details.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

tags (1.1)

</td>
<td valign="top">

comma separated string

</td>
<td valign="top">

operation element

</td>
<td valign="top">

List of tags that apply to the operation.

SData does not impose any predefined list of tags. Instead, each contract is
free to define its own list of tags.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

<blockquote class="note">This schema fragment is the equivalent of web service definition
language (WSDL) in the SData world.</blockquote>

<blockquote class="compliance">SData providers MUST describe their service operations in the
schema, in the format specified above.</blockquote>

* * *