---
layout: page
group: core
level: 1
title: 12.3 Named Query Metadata
---

In the schema, named queries follow the same pattern as service operations.

The metadata for a named query can be obtained by appending a
<tt>$schema</tt> segment to the&nbsp;query's URL. For example:

<pre>http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/products/$queries/reorder/$schema</pre>

This URL works like the other
[SData schema URLs](../0401/ "4.1 Typical SData Schema"). It SHOULD redirect to an element that is defined in a global
schema.&nbsp;The response to a <tt>GET</tt> on the above URL would&nbsp;typically be:

<pre> HTTP 302 Found   
Location: http://www.example.com/sdata/myApp/myContract/-/$schema#productReorder
</pre>

<blockquote class="note">The query name has been prefixed by <tt>product</tt> to avoid a
potential name clash with the same query name in a different URL branch.</blockquote>

The global schema would contain the following element definition:

<pre>&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="productReorder" 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; type="tns:productReorder--type"
              sme:role="query"
              sme:path="products/$queries/reorder"
              sme:canGet="true"
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; sme:invocationMode="sync"/&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;xs:complexType name="productReorder--type"&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:all&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="request" type="tns:reorderRequest--type" minOccurs="0" /&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="response" type="tns:reorderResponse--type" minOccurs="0" /&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;/xs:all&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;/xs:complexType&gt;
&nbsp;
&nbsp; &lt;xs:complexType name="reorderRequest--type"&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:all&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="family" type="xs:string" sme:label="Product family" /&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="threshold" type="xs:decimal" sme:label="Stock threshold" /&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;/xs:all&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;/xs:complexType&gt;
&nbsp;
&nbsp; &lt;xs:complexType name="reorderResponse--type"&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:all&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="productId" type="xs:string" sme:label="Product ID" sme:canSort="true" sme:canFilter="true" /&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="description" type="xs:string" sme:label="Product description" sme:canFilter="true" /&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;xs:element name="stock" type="xs:decimal" sme:label="Stock count" sme:canSort="true" sme:canFilter="true" /&gt;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &lt;/xs:all&gt;
&nbsp; &lt;/xs:complexType&gt;</pre>

&nbsp;This schema fragment follows the same pattern as a service operation schema
fragment. The SME extensions used to encode&nbsp;named query&nbsp;options are
now&nbsp;described:

<table class="content">
<tbody>

<tr>

<th>

Attribute

</th>
<th>

Values

</th>
<th>

Applies to

</th>
<th>

Description

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

role

</td>
<td valign="top">

query

</td>
<td valign="top">

query element

</td>
<td>

Differentiates this element from
"<a href="../0101/" title="1.1 Terminology">resource kind</a>" and service operation elements.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

path

</td>
<td valign="top">

relative URL

</td>
<td valign="top">

query element

</td>
<td>

Relative URL to execute the query.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

invocationMode

</td>
<td valign="top">

sync

async

syncOrAsync

</td>
<td valign="top">

query element

</td>
<td valign="top">

Indicates whether the querycan be started synchronously, asynchronously or in
both modes.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

canGet

</td>
<td valign="top">

true

false (default)

</td>
<td valign="top">

query element

</td>
<td valign="top">

Can the query be invoked via a GET request?

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

canPost

</td>
<td valign="top">

true

false (default)

</td>
<td valign="top">

query element

</td>
<td valign="top">

Can the query be invoked via a POST request?

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

unsupported

</td>
<td valign="top">

true

false (default)

</td>
<td valign="top">

query element

</td>
<td valign="top">

Is&nbsp;the operation&nbsp;part of a global contract&nbsp;that it is not supported by this
specific provider?

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

hasTemplate

</td>
<td valign="top">

true

false (default)

</td>
<td valign="top">

query element

</td>
<td valign="top">

Does the service provide a $template URL for this operation?

See <a href="../1107/" title="11.7 Operation Template">Operation Template section</a>&nbsp;for details.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

<blockquote class="note">This schema fragment is the equivalent of web service definition
language (WSDL) in the SData world.</blockquote>

At least one of the <tt>canGet</tt> and <tt>canPost</tt> attributes MUST be
set to true.

If the query is invoked through GET, the input parameters are passed by means
of URL query parameters (_<tt>family</tt> and _<tt>threshold</tt> in the
previous example). The names of the parameters are obtained by prefixing the
element names for the schema's request type by an underscore.

If the query is invoked though POST, the input parameters are encapsulated
into an Atom <tt>&lt;entry&gt;</tt> element. The request is then similar to a
service operation request (see the section on
[synchronous service calls](../1104/ "11.4 Synchronous Operations")), the only difference being
that the response is an Atom <tt>&lt;feed&gt;</tt> rather than an Atom
<tt>&lt;entry&gt;</tt>.

If the <tt>invocationMode</tt> allows asynchronous invocation, the query MAY
be executed asynchonously. This imposes&nbsp;the POST method and it requires that a
trackingId parameter be added to the URL. The protocol is similar to the one
used for asynchronous service calls (see [asynchronous
service calls section](../1105/ "11.5 Asynchronous Operations") for details).

<blockquote class="compliance">SData providers MUST describe their named queries in the schema,
in the format specified above.</blockquote>

* * *