---
layout: page
group: core
level: 1
title: 14.6 Multiple Registries
---

Ideally, every domain should have a unique registry. All the SData providers
should register their endpoints in this registry. The SData consumers can
interrogate the domain's registry to find providers.

But in real life, we will often encounter situations where several registries
coexist in a given domain. In a typical small business configuration, there
won't be any central server and every machine that hosts an SData service will
have its own registry of local service endpoints.

SData does not address the complex problem of maintaining the registries
automatically synchronized when several registries are present in a given
domain. Instead, SData relies on manual administration of the registries and
only provides a simple protocol to merge two registries together.

A source registry can be merged into a target&nbsp;registry simply by POSTing all
the source registry endpoints into the target registry. The target registry will
use the endpoint URLs to detect duplicates.&nbsp;After the merge, the source registry
should respond to queries with a <tt>301 Moved Permanently</tt> response code.
This response code instructs the requester to use the target registry's URL for
future requests.

This simple protocol can be used to aggregate multiple local registries into
a central one.

At this stage, SData does not provide any protocol to support the discovery
of registries. A typical service discovery will involve three steps:

*   The user will enter the host name and the port number of the registry that
he wishes to interrogate.
*   The SData consumer will query the registry and return a list of endpoints.

*   The user will select one of the endpoints.

Of course, if the administrator has consolidated all the endpoints into a
unique registry, he should have the ability to configure the URL of the registry
in his SData consumers so that they can interrogate the registry without
requiring user input.

SData may provide more advanced discovery mechanisms in the future, and may
leverage protocols like Apple's Bonjour or Microsoft UPnP (SSDP). An alternate
solution&nbsp;would be to have a global registry at a fixed address&nbsp;"in the cloud".
This is left for further study.

* * *