---
layout: page
group: sdata-20
level: 0
title: Core
---

## <a name="motivation-purpose" href="#motivation-purpose">Motivation and purpose</a>

A clear and concise definition of SData is one of the primary goals for the 2.0 version. 

The SData standard is a comprehensive specification capable of handling even the most complex 
business cases that might require synchronization, paging, discoverability, etc. In the past, teams building 
SData providers believed they had to implement everything mentioned in the SData 1.x standard, even 
features not required by their particular business case. In some instances this lead to the perception that 
building an SData provider was more difficult to create than it was really the case.

SData 2.0 can be viewed as a web toolkit consisting of a small set of required core features and many 
optional features that solve frequently encountered problems. This document will capture and define 
the small number of core features that make up the 'SData 2.0 core'.

In addition to clarifying and simplifying the standard, this document also introduces JSON as a new 
optional format for SData payloads. JSON is ideally suited to some business cases like mobility because 
it's less verbose then ATOM/XML. This document will not provide a complete JSON specification but it 
will compare and contrast JSON and ATOM formats defined in SData 2.0.

## <a name="aims" href="#aims">Aims</a>

This paper designates and describes the central aspects of SData, yielding the 'core' of the specification. 
The document does <u>not</u> contain the <u>official text</u> of the core itself - it points out the fundamentals, leaving
the global community presentation of the topics open for future work.

This document will:

*  Identify the SData 2.0 fundamental aspects and establish the relation to their counterparts in the 1.x version of the standard
*  Re-define compliance levels(MUST/SHOULD/MAY) on core aspects
*  Deprecate outdated features or solutions

***