---
layout: page
group: sdata-20
level: 1
title: Requesting content by means of media type negotiation
---

SData 1.x relied solely on the atom+xml format. SData 2.0 introduces support of the JSON format on par 
with atom+xml, giving applications the freedom to operate in any one or both formats. A consumer can 
explicitly request one of the supported formats or alternatively, rely upon the default provider response. 

## <a name="explicit-request" href="#explicit-request">Explicit request</a>

The explicit request for a format is achieved by specifying the media type "atom+xml" or "json" within 
the Accept header of the request or as a query parameter as shown below:


<table>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Accept header</td>
    <td>Atom</td>
    <td>Accept: application/atom+xml;vnd.sage=sdata</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>JSON</td>
    <td>Accept: application/json;vnd.sage=sdata</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Format URL parameter</td>
    <td>Atom</td>
    <td>&hellip;?format=application/atom+xml;vnd.sage=sdata</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>JSON</td>
    <td>&hellip;?format=application/json;vnd.sage=sdata</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## <a name="default-implicit-request" href="#default-implicit-request">Default/implicit request</a>

A contract can (and should) specify the default format it operates on. The default is chosen to service the 
majority of the incoming requests without additional specification from the consumer. The following 
defaults are suggested:

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Media type</th><th>Defaults to</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Application/json</td><td>Application/json;vnd.sage=sdata</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Application/xml</td><td>Application/atom+xml</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>No media type specified</td><td>Use the contract specified default</td>
    </tr>
</table>


Contracts not explicitly naming a default format are assumed to have the application/atom+xml
default. This ensures consistency with the current SData 1.x implementations. 

## <a name="operations" href="#operations">Operations</a>

The SData 1.x. specification describes the following logical operations:

*  [7 Read Operation](../../core/0700/)
*  [6 Queries](../../core/0600/)
*  [8 Create Operation](../../core/0800/)
*  [9 Update Operation](../../core/0900/)
*  [10 Delete Operation](../../core/1000/)

SData 2.0 logical operations are implemented through HTTP verbs as shown in the table below:

<table class="left">
    <tr>
        <th>SData operation</th><th>HTTP Verb</th><th>Compliance level</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>Read</th><td>GET</td><td>SHOULD</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>Update - full contents</th><td>PUT</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>Update - partial contents</th><td>PATCH</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>Create operation</th><td>POST</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th>Delete operation</th><td>DELETE</td><td>MAY</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <th style="border-bottom-color: #62ac2e;">Queries</th><td>GET</td><td>SHOULD: support of the basic query set. 
Properties usable in queries are at least:
<ul>
  <li>sdata:key property if one is defined</li>
  <li>sdata:uuid property if one is defined</li>
</ul>
MAY for other properties</td>
    </tr>
</table>


The [PATCH](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5789) support is a new addition to SData; it supplants the PUT verb usage for [partial payloads](../../core/0902/ "9.2 Update Payloads"). The 
usage of PUT for partial updates is **deprecated** with SData 2.0.  Existing implementations may still use 
PUT, but should consider switching to PATCH in upcoming releases.

***