---
layout: page
group: sdata-20
level: 1
title: SData URL
---

The SData URL is responsible for resource addressing and represents the tie-in with the REST 
architectural style. The current specification ([Chapter 2: Anatomy of an SData URL](../../core/0200/ "2 Anatomy of an SData URL")) is fairly restrictive 
due to the initial, more normative approach adopted at the time.

The proposals presented in the upcoming sub-sections remove a number of current rules and 
restrictions. The intended effect is increased simplicity coupled with lending applications the ability to 
construct URLs that fit better with their natural structure and underlying technologies. 

## <a name="liberisation-url-structure" href="#liberisation-url-structure">Liberalization of the URL structure up to the query component</a>

**In SData 2.0 the URL structure prior to the Query component is freely definable by the 
provider.** This applies specifically to the existence and structure of the following URI Path[&sup1;](#1) subcomponents as defined by SData in the [Resource Collection URL](../../core/0201/ "2.1 Resource Collection URL") section:

*  Virtual directory:
    *  MAY be 'sdata', which is preferred 
    *  MAY be a set of several sub-segments 
*  Contract name:
    *  MAY be omitted if it is the only contract to be exposed by the provider
    *  MAY comprise several sub-segments. A meaningful sub-segment is the contract version that an 
application MAY expose
*  Application name:
    *  MAY be provided. It is recommended that the application name be a part of the URL.
*  Dataset:
    *  MAY be omitted if only one dataset is supported by the provider
    *  MAY contain several sub-segments reflecting a hierarchical dataset selection structure
    *  The composition formalism described in 1.x standard remains valid

The requirements imposed by version 1.x ([Section 2.1 Resource Collection URL](../../core/0201/ "2.1 Resource Collection URL")) become guidelines[&sup2;](#2) in SData 2.0, meaning that implementations are <u>encouraged (but not forced)</u> to act accordingly.

## <a name="reserved-segments-app-level" href="#reserved-segments-app-level">Reserved segments at the application level</a>

**In SData 2.0, none of the segments mentioned below are required - these MAY be present if
required by the underlying contract:**

*  $schema: amendment to the 1.x version that required the presence of the segment
*  $service: clarification to the 1.x version
*  $queries: clarification to the 1.x version
*  $batch: amendment to the 1.x version where the $batch segment was tied exclusively to a 
resource kind URL

The corresponding SData 1.x definitions are found under:

*  [2.4 Service Operation URL](../../core/0204/)
*  [2.5 Named Query URL](../../core/0205/)
*  [2.6 Template resource URL](../../core/0206/)
*  [2.7 Resource schema URL](../../core/0207/)
*  [2.9 Intermediate URLs](../../core/0209/)
*  [13.1 Batch URL](../../core/1301/)

## <a name="schema-requirement" href="#schema-requirement">Schema requirement</a>

**In SData 2.0 the presence of the <u>schema is optional</u>.** This applies equally to application-wide and 
resource kind schemas.
SData 1.x required a schema to be present (see [2.7 Resource Schema URL](../../core/0207/ "2.7 Resource Schema URL")). While it is recognized that 
schemas are a meaningful component in application-to-application scenarios, providing and maintaining 
a schema in most other scenarios is difficult and costly. SData 2.0 lifts the existing requirement and 
leaves it up to the contract to require the presence of a schema.

***
<a name="1" href="#1">1</a>. URI Path as defined in [section 3 of RFC 3986](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-3 "Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Syntax Components")   
<a name="2" href="#2">2</a>. This is a 'lesson learned' from the practical experiences with implementations of the standard. It was recognized 
that the objective needs of products and contracts, in combination with the underlying development tools, do not 
easily conform to the 1.x requirements. The relaxation reduces the implementation and maintenance effort of 
delivery teams.