---
layout: page
group: sdata-20
level: 0
title: Expressing metadata in JSON
---

# <a name="introduction" href="#introduction">Introduction</a>

## <a name="background" href="#background">Background</a>

SData [1] is a standards-based protocol used by many Sage products to share information and promote 
integration.  SData is based on HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol), the protocol that powers most of the 
internet traffic around the globe, and is suitable for use in Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), 
mobile applications, and for application integration.

SData is published under a Creative Commons Licence, and may be freely reused as a specification.

SData version 1.0 was published in 2010, and updated in 2011 to the current version, v1.1. This 
document, along with four others defines the next version of SData, 2.0, which focuses on simplifying the 
protocol and introduces full support for JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) [2], alongside the XML and 
Atom support introduced in SData v1.0.

The full set of documents defining SData 2.0 is:

<table>
    <tr>
        <td><strong>"The underlying approach to evolving SData"</strong></td>
        <td>Outlines how the SData Working Group approached the task of 
updating the SData protocol while ensuring compatibility with 
implementations of version 1.0 and 1.1 already in use.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><strong>"SData 2.0 Core"</strong></td>
        <td>Defines the main elements of the SData protocol, explains how these 
elements are being updated (and in some cases, relaxed) for the 2.0 
release, and outlines how JSON is being integrated into these elements.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><strong>"JSON formatted SData responses"</strong></td>
        <td>Defines the JSON format for SData content, focusing on structural 
aspects of content and representation.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><strong>"SData 2.0 Expressing metadata in JSON"</strong></td>
        <td>This document. Builds on the JSON formatted SData responses to 
define how providers should express metadata in JSON.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><strong>"SData 2.0 and Sage ID"</strong></td>
        <td>Specifies how Sage ID Authentication is handled in SData 2.0.</td>
    </tr>
</table>

## <a name="overview" href="#overview">Overview</a>

When designing distributed systems, there is always a balance to be struck between flexibility and 
simplicity. One particular instance of this balance is in the amount of "hard-coded" or built-in knowledge 
that a client, or consumer, should have about the server, or provider, that it is using[&sup1;](#1). Historically, 
consumers have been designed with significant amounts of built-in knowledge about the provider, 
tipping the balance in favour of simplicity and against flexibility. In this situation the provider needs only 
to provide raw information, as knowledge necessary to handle this raw information is encoded into the 
client. Increasingly, however, we are building more versatile clients, capable of communicating with 
several different providers and able to adapt, dynamically, to data and metadata from any given 
provider.

SData 2.0 is focused on supporting these more versatile clients and treats the representation, transport, 
and handling of metadata as an important protocol element. This document defines how SData 
providers should expose JSON metadata at the feed, entry and property level.

***
<a name="1" href="#1">1</a>. Provider" and "consumer" are used in SData broadly interchangeably with the terms "server" and "client".