---
layout: page
group: sdata-20
level: 1
title: Embedded metadata
---

SData payloads contain embedded metadata elements of two kinds:

*  SData-defined elements: used throughout this document and collected in [Appendix A](../05-AppendixA/).
*  Application specific metadata elements.

Metadata inclusion in a JSON response is governed by the following rules:

*  SData metadata for an object is presented as properties of the objects, along-side the native 
properties of the object. Given the leading $, it is possible to distinguish between the two.
*  SData metadata pertaining to properties of an object is collected in a $properties object
within the object itself.  The structure of the $properties is as follows:
    *  properties of the $properties JSON object mirror the native properties of the original 
object (and have the same name). 
    *  the contents are objects enclosing the metadata elements pertaining to corresponding 
native properties.
*  The capability metadata elements (canRead, canUpdate, canDelete, canCreate) are replaced 
in their functionality by **links**.  

Embedded metadata SHOULD be an exception, meant to override/extend the information contained 
in the prototype (see section [SData prototypes](../05-1000/) for more details on prototypes). In this manner, it is possible to 
significantly reduce the volume of information transferred from the provider to the consumer.

Example:   Consider a Product object with the following structure and data:

Product   

*  name     -> "iPhone"
*  ID      -> "4711"
*  unitPrice  ->  459.00
*  stock    -> "available"  [read only]

In this example, the value of the stock property is computed by the underlying application and therefore 
readOnly.  Retrieving this product by means of a GET operation on &hellip;/Products('4711') we should get 
the following format in JSON for the product in question:

<pre>
{ 
    "$url" : "https://www.example.com/sdata/myapp/-/-/products('4711')", 
    "$key" : "4711", 
    "name" : "iPhone", 
    "ID" : "4711", 
    "unitPrice" : 459.00, 
    "stock" : "available", 
    "$properties" : {
        "stock" : { "$isReadOnly" : true}
    }
}
</pre>

The result shows the SData required elements $url and $key embedded at the same level as the native 
properties of the object.  Additionally, the $properties contains a stock object with the name-value 
pair passing the $isReadOnly attribute value to the caller.

## <a name="properties-object" href="#properties-object">$properties object</a>

The $properties object encapsulates the properties of the resource kind as they would be returned by 
a GET operation in JSON, and has the following characteristics: 

*  The object structure is maintained, exactly matching the JSON structure in the payload.
*  An individual property is a JSON object whose name does NOT start with $ and contains:
    *  The metadata for the object represented as name-value pairs. The name will start with a $.
*  Each property MUST have an associated $type specification.

Example:

Consider the following Address resource kind with metadata enclosed in square brackets:

*  ID: [integer, Hidden, Mandatory]
*  Street: [string, title="Street", Mandatory]
*  StreetNumber: [integer, title="Number"]
*  City: [string, title="City", Mandatory]
*  PostalCode: [string, title="ZipCode", Mandatory]
*  Country: [referenceToCountryResourceKind, Mandatory]
    *  Name: [string]
    *  ISOCode: [string]
    *  [url="http://www.example.com/sdata/MyApp/-/-/countries"] 

This would result in the following $properties object:

<pre>
{
    "$properties": {
        "ID": {
            "$title": "AddressId",
            "$type": "sdata/integer",
            "$isMandatory": true,
            "$isHidden": true
        },
        "Street": {
            "$title": "Street",
            "$type": "sdata/string",
            "$isMandatory": true
        },
        "StreetNumber": {
            "$title": "Number",
            "$type": "sdata/integer"
        },
        "City": {
            "$title": "City",
            "$type": "sdata/string",
            "$isMandatory": true
        },
        "PostalCode": {
            "$title": "ZipCode",
            "$type": "sdata/string",
            "$isMandatory": true
        },
        "Country": {
            "$title": "Country",
            "$type": "sdata/reference",
            "$links": {
                "$prototype": {
                    "$id": "lookup",
                    "$url": "{$baseUrl}/$prototypes/countries('{$id}')",
                    "$title": "Prototype of Country thumbnail"
                }
            },
            "$isMandatory": true,
            "$item": {
                "$url": "http://www.example.com/sdata/MyApp/-/-/countries('{ISOCode}')",
                "$properties": {
                    "Name": {
                    "$title": "Country name",
                    "$type": "sdata/string",
                    "$isMandatory": true
                    },
                    "ISOCode": {
                        "$title": "Country code",
                        "$type": "sdata/string",
                        "$format": "country",
                        "$isMandatory": true
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
</pre>

In the above, the scalar properties (ID, Street, &hellip;) are objects containing respectively the 
$title, $type and, if appropriate, the $isMandatory metadata.
 
The Country property is a reference to the countries resource kind.  Accordingly, it has a type 
of "sdata/reference" and a $url specification.  The metadata for the sub-properties of 
Country (i.e. Name and ISOCode) are defined in the body of the $item object.

***