---
layout: page
group: sdata-20
level: 1
title: JSON metadata in SData
---

JSON Metadata in SData appears in the following structures:

*  **Type definitions:**  defines the SData-recognized set of types.
*  **Links (hypermedia controls):**  are JSON objects describing operations   
(Create/Read/Update/Delete and also SData queries and services) on resources.
*  **Embedded metadata:**  covers metadata provided within a resource representation.  It is 
optionally attached to resources and their properties.
*  **Prototype:**  prototypes are the JSON counterpart of schemas.  In contrast to the detailed and 
restrictive nature of an XSD document, the prototype is: 
    *  Expressed in JSON.
    *  Simple and compact, making use of string composition to bind a generic template to the information delivered at the resource level.

The JSON characteristics are:

*  Metadata is expressed in JSON and relates to resource kind representations and their properties;
there is no overarching prototype that describes an entire contract (in contrast to the schema in 
SData v1.1).
*  The static/structural metadata of a representation SHOULD be collected in a JSON object called 
**$prototype**.
    *  Prototypes describe, by means of metadata, the characteristics of a representation (e.g.,
structure, type, links).
    *  A complete resource (i.e. containing both the data and the metadata) is obtained by a merge 
and substitution process combining the raw data and the metadata contained in the 
prototype. 
    *  Representations and prototypes are ideally in a 1-1 relationship.
*  Metadata MAY be embedded in responses, but is easy to separate from the raw payload. 
Embedded metadata extends/overrides the metadata of the associated prototype if one such 
exists.  If no prototype is present, the embedded metadata is the only kind available to the 
consumer.
*  The SData-defined metadata set (presented in this document) can be augmented by contractspecific metadata elements.
*  All SData entities expressed in JSON MUST be valid JSON documents, whether containing 
metadata extensions or not.

***