---
layout: page
group: sdata-20
level: 1
title: Substitution formalism
---

Metadata associated with the natural payload of a resource can be quite extensive and the values they 
carry (often URLs) are quite verbose.  To reduce bandwidth consumption and to ease readability, SData 
2.0's JSON format defines a formalism that allows a compressed representation of string values. 

The substitution formalism is simple: the string values of metadata elements may contain a property 
name (metadata or payload) enclosed in curly brackets ("{" and "}").  Once a payload is received, the 
above specified string portions are substituted with the corresponding values.  The syntax is a simplified 
version of [RFC 6570](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6570#section-3.2.2), "URI Template" [3], applicable to any information, not just URIs.

The substitution process is described as follows:

*  For every complete resource (payload + all associated metadata), for every metadata string
property in the object, perform the following:
*  If the string contains an un-escaped[&sup3;](#3) "{*identifierString*}" substring then
    *  If the *identifierString* is a defined property <u>name</u> determined according to the scoping rules below, then:
        *  Replace "{*identifierString*}" with its corresponding <u>value</u> in string format.
    *  Otherwise, a formal error has occurred.

Scoping rules: using the specification "X" : "{Y}" 

*  If the values of X and Y are different:
    *  The initial search scope is the scope containing the definition of the property X.
*  Otherwise:
    *  The initial search scope is the scope immediately enclosing (logically "above") the scope containing the definition of the property X.
*  If a property Y can be found in this scope, its value is used in the substitution.
*  Otherwise, the enclosing scopes are searched for property Y, from the initial scope "upwards".
The reader will encounter specifications of the form "X": "X" in the section on Links, where they are used 
to indicate that the URL for a link should be obtained by substitution of the URL in the containing object.

The substitution formalism defines a recursive process with a fixed recursion depth set as default to 5; 
the value of the recursion depth can be overridden if necessary in the contract.

Example:  Consider the following simple SData entry expressed in JSON:

<pre>
{
    "$baseUrl": "http://www.example.com/sdata/MyApp/-/-",
    "$url": "{$baseUrl}/addresses?CreditExceeded=true",
    "$title": "Account {accountId} of {companyName} has exceeded credit limit",
    "companyName": "ACME Inc.",
    "accountId": "A-1322",
    "ID": "7123a",
    "Street": "Lerchenweg",
    "StreetNumber": 11,
    "PostalCode": 71711,
    "City": "Marbach am Neckar",
    "Country": {
        "$url": "{$baseUrl}/countries('{ISOCode}')",
        "Name": "Germany",
        "ISOCode": "DE"
    }
}
</pre>

In this case, the metadata properties highlighted in red (two instances of $url and one of $title)
have values that require substitution. This is applied as follows:

*  $baseUrl value into:
    *  $url at the entity level.
    *  $url within the Country property.
*  accountId and companyName in the $title at the feed level.
*  ISOCode value into the respective $url of the Country object.

The substitutions and the resulting logical JSON object (final) are shown below:

<pre>
{
    "$baseUrl": "http://www.example.com/sdata/MyApp/-/-",
    "$url": " http://www.example.com/sdata/MyApp/-/-/addresses?CreditExceeded=true",
    "$title": "Account  A-1322 of  ACME Inc. has exceeded credit limit",
    "companyName": "ACME Inc.",
    "accountId": "A-1322",
    "ID": "7123a",
    "Street": "Lerchenweg",
    "StreetNumber": 11,
    "PostalCode": 71711,
    "City": "Marbach am Neckar",
    "Country": {
        "$url": " http://www.example.com/sdata/MyApp/-/-/countries('DE')",
        "Name": "Germany",
        "ISOCode": "DE"
    }
}
</pre>

***
<a name="3" href="#3">3</a>. The substitution mechanism can be escaped by using "{{" and "}}" instead of the single curly brackets.