---
layout: page
group: sdata-20
level: 0
title: SageID integration
---

# <a name="introduction" href="#introduction">Introduction</a>

## <a name="background" href="#background">Background</a>

SData [1] is a standards-based protocol used by many Sage products to share information and promote 
integration. SData is based on HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol), the protocol that powers most of the 
internet traffic around the globe, and is suitable for use in Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), 
mobile applications, and for application integration.

SData is published under a Creative Commons Licence, and may be freely reused as a specification.

SData version 1.0 was published in 2010, and updated in 2011 to the current version, v1.1. This 
document, along with four others defines the next version of SData, 2.0, which focuses on simplifying the 
protocol and introduces full support for JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) [2], alongside the XML and 
Atom support introduced in SData v1.0.

The full set of documents defining SData 2.0 is:


<table>
    <tr>
        <td><strong>"The underlying approach to evolving SData"</strong></td>
        <td>Outlines how the SData Working Group approached the task of updating the SData protocol while ensuring compatibility with implementations of version 1.0 and 1.1 already in use.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><strong>"SData 2.0 Core"</strong></td><td>Defines the main elements of the SData protocol, explains how these 
elements are being updated (and in some cases, relaxed) for the 2.0 
release, and outlines how JSON is being integrated into these elements.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><strong>"JSON formatted SData responses"</strong></td>
        <td>Defines the JSON format for SData content, focusing on structural aspects of content and representation.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><strong>"SData 2.0 Expressing metadata in JSON"</strong></td>
        <td>Builds on the JSON formatted SData responses to define how providers should express metadata in JSON.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><strong>"SData 2.0 and Sage ID"</strong></td><td>This document. Specifies how Sage ID Authentication is handled in 
SData 2.0.</td>
    </tr>
</table>

## <a name="overview" href="#overview">Overview</a>

Sage ID is the user authentication service for Sage online products and services. Further information 
about Sage ID can be found online at http://docs.sso.sagessdp.co.uk (username: ssodocs, password: Q9VdcpfkWFbT).

This document specifies how Sage ID tokens should be used in conjunction with SData 2.0.

# <a name="sageid-sdata" href="#sageid-sdata">Using Sage ID with SData</a>

Sage ID provides support for the authorization code grant type described in RFC 6749, "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework" [3]. A client participating in this protocol receives a "bearer token" which is 
presented to a service as evidence of authorization. The way that the bearer token is transferred 
between the client and the service is defined in RFC 6750, "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: 
Bearer Token Usage" [4].

The Bearer Token Specification does not specify the contents of the token (this is intentionally left to be 
implementation specific), but it does specify the mechanisms for presenting access tokens in resource 
requests.

There are three main mechanisms for presenting access tokens:

*  [HTTP request header](#request-header)
*  [HTTP request entity-body](#error-conditions)
*  [HTTP URI query parameter](../../core/0211/ "2.11 Query Parameters")

Only the first of these mechanisms is supported by the SData 2.0 Protocol.

## <a name="request-header" href="#request-header">HTTP request header</a>

When sending the access request token in the Authorization header, the access token must be base64 
encoded and preceded by the literal string "Bearer" (without the quotation marks):

<pre>
GET /resource HTTP/1.1
Host: server.example.com
Authorization: Bearer vF9dft4qmT
</pre>

### <a name="server-response" href="#server-response">Server Response</a>

When an SData service receives a request via any of these mechanisms, it should:

*  Base 64 decode the token
*  Decrypt the decoded token using the service symmetric key (previously supplied when the service was registered with Sage ID)
*  Validate the token according to the procedure illustrated in the Sage ID documentation and sample code

If token validation succeeds and the request is authorized, the service should fulfill the request.

## <a name="error-conditions" href="#error-conditions">Authorization Error Conditions</a>

There are several authorization error conditions that the SData service MUST cater for:

### <a name="missing-access-token" href="#missing-access-token">Missing access token</a>

No access token was included with the request. 

In this case the SData service MUST return a HTTP 401 (unauthorized) status code with a WWWAuthenticate header but MUST NOT include any other error information: 
<pre>
HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
WWW-Authenticate: Bearer realm="SageID"
</pre>

Note that the WWW-Authenticate header used in this and all other authorization error conditions MUST use the auth-scheme value "Bearer" and a realm of "SageID", as shown above.

### <a name="multiple-access-tokens" href="#multiple-access-tokens">Multiple access tokens</a>

More than one access token was included with the request.

In this case the SData service MUST return a HTTP 401 (unauthorized) status code with a WWWAuthenticate header with an error parameter of "invalid_request" and an error_description parameter 
with a textual description of the cause of the error:

<pre>
HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized 
WWW-Authenticate: Bearer realm="SageID",error="invalid_request", error_description="Multiple access tokens were supplied."
</pre>

### <a name="invalid-access-token" href="#invalid-access-token">Invalid access token</a>

An access token was included correctly with the request, but the provided token is malformed, expired 
or invalid for other reasons.

In this case the SData service MUST return a HTTP 401 (unauthorized) error code and a WWWAuthenticate header with an error parameter of "invalid_token" and an error_description parameter with a textual description of the cause of the error:

<pre>
HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized   
WWW-Authenticate: Bearer realm="SageID",   
error="invalid_token", error_description="The access token was expired."
</pre>

The error_description parameter MUST NOT include detailed technical information about the cause of 
the error which might allow a malicious user to ascertain details of the underlying implementation or to 
conduct attacks against the cryptography used to decrypt and validate the access token. It is 
RECOMMENDED that, if the token is invalid for any reason other than expiry, the error_description 
parameter should simply state that the access token was malformed.

### <a name="access-token-insufficient-scope" href="#access-token-insufficient-scope">Access token with insufficient scope</a>

The provided access token is valid but the request requires higher privileges than encoded in the access 
token. 

In this case the SData service MUST return a HTTP 401 (unauthorized) error code and a WWWAuthenticate header with an error parameter of "insufficient_scope" and an error_description 
parameter with a textual description of the cause of the error:

<pre>
HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized   
WWW-Authenticate: Bearer realm="SageID",   
error="insufficient_scope", error_description="The access   
token did not contain the required permissions."
</pre>

**Note:**   
Use of the "scope" parameter is not covered in the SData Protocol's integration with Sage ID. According 
to [[3](../06-0300/#3)] and [[4](../06-0300/#4)], values of the scope parameter are defined by the authorization service (Sage ID in this 
case), rather than by the resource owner.

***